Alex Hartford
2023
# 12/31/2023
Plan for 23

Schedule
  12-8  | Sleep.
  8-4   | Work Time.
  4-12  | Free.

Overview
  Life is divided clearly into priorities and hobbies.

  Priorities
    Clarity
    Games
    Job

  Hobbies
    Play Games
    D&D
    Music
    Piano
    Exercise

Specifics

  Clarity
    Meditation schedule
    Journaling habit
    No internet, low discourse.
      Ban sites on computer - DONE.
      As little phone as possible.
      Learn to relax the mind while on the toilet.
    Less music. More silence.
    Less configuration. Set and forget.

  Games
    Gather good puzzle pieces
    Determine early which ideas are worth pursuing
    Actually follow the practice of minimum products.
    Deliver products to people to play.

  Job
    Get it done quickly, well, and to my satisfaction.
    Learn as much as I possibly can while at work.

The real trouble with all this is that a lot of things are best implemented as a faith thing.
Where my priorities are set by what matters to me in the moment to moment of daily life.

This is where all habits tend to falter.
Discipline is weak. 
But it might be all there really is here.
I can think some more about it, I suppose.


# 12/30/2023

This year, the goal is to do as much good hard creative work as possible,
while remaining comfortable and clear enough to stay focused and peaceful.

To that end, there are two sides to meeting my goals this year:

Finishing 4 Games.

Keeping a clear mind and purpose.

////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

## Quantity
    Finish 4 games.

        Rubicon - To completion sometime during the year.
        Bird Platformer.
        Tactics Game.
        Umi.

    I can work off of whatever engines, libraries, and old code I want.
    If I can manage to release an old half-finished game of mine this year, that counts too.

////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

## Clarity
The problems I have historically dealt with w.r.t. clarity are as follows:
    Distracted mind | The wandering sort. Internet plays the biggest part here.
    Insecurity      | I have been unable to face my life with courage.
    Dishonesty      | Because of insecurity, I hide the truth from the world.

To defeat these foes, I set out the following plan:
    No internet on anything.
    Exercise regularly.
    Meditate and stretch for at least a minute each night.
    Eat quality food and a good amount of fiber.
    Talk with June often. Tell her about it.
    Write often. Get thoughts out onto paper.
    Ask authentic questions. Be curious about my self and the world.
# 12/30/2023
Happy Birthday!

In the new year, I'll be journaling some more, I think.
I want to set up some nice structures in my life. Some things that keep me sharp and thinking.
Which move me towards good and exciting and away from garbage.
I want to prevent the confusion of the heart which often comes with the slowing down of the body and the mind.
I want to be big!

# 12/28/2023
But now I'm feeling pretty good.

Saw Arne, he's doing good.
Think he's got some trouble these days, mostly with knowing what he wants to spend his life doing.
He's just like me!

I sort of want to do a lot of things, but I don't *need* to do anything in particular.
Jack of all trades, master of none.

But that's all good with me.
I'm having a good time! I'm living a good life!

I'm gonna be ok, so don't worry about it!
# 12/26/2023
There's a lot on the mind today, and for a while now.

Things are spiraling, getting worse, fragmented, fractured.

Not sure why...

But it's like this:
* I can't get the stuff I used to get out of things.
  * Video Games
  * Making things (Games, Movies, etc)
* I have a hard time understanding love and passion.
* I am more insecure now.
* I ask for rewards.
* I don't want to learn just to learn.
* I find myself gravitating to mindless consumption.

Just a lot of things at once!
I don't know what is happening!
How do I get out of this spiral?
I just want to know that tomorrow I will be a little bit better than I was today.

Merry Christmas.

---
I wonder if... It's just that I'm alone! I don't have anyone in my scene to work with and around?

That's got to be it. It's always exciting to work on things with other people. Fuck! I need to find the artists!
# 12/20/2023
Back here after a while.

Things are pretty good. At least these days.
I'm a happy man. I like the way my life is.

I live in Bellevue, things are pretty quiet in my little apartment here.
I watch old movies and play games sometimes.

Mostly, I go to work and work on stuff at home.
I'm working on a little platformer game, and an rpg with James from work.
We have a good time, we really do.
He's gonna come over and show me how to cook a real good fried rice one of these days.

It's almost Christmas. I got everyone's gifts all figured out - all except my mom's birthday. That one's always a tough one.

I'm running some dnd these days, well-meaning, but not quite right... It's a hard thing to get right. I'm happy anyways.

June's my best friend still, and we have a good time. She's got it tough with her folks right now, and I can tell it really gets her down,
but she's doing the best she can, - I'd say the best anyone could. I can't blame her for anything.
I just want her to be free.

Music's on the backburner, as is fitness. My perennial excuse is in full force - my liver's still large.
Now I've got hemmerhoids that keep me from going to work some days. I'm gonna see a doctor, but it's really amazing.
I'd say this whole year's been cast under that shadow.
I wonder how much I lost sometimes. How much joy and innocence, lost to persistent pain.
I don't like to think too much about that kind of stuff.

I really like music, though. I think all my favorite stuff is music, or is my favorite cuz it's got music in it.
It's really pretty special stuff.
I've got to think some more about that sometime.

Work keeps a guy pretty busy. Keeps him from thinking about that stuff too easy.
But 40 hours is not too much, and I hardly clock that to the minute.
My life's pretty darn good, and if it weren't for damn insurance and furniture, I'd be a wealthy man.

Plan right now is to save some cash up, then go low-expense for a while. Maybe travel around. We'll see.
Life's too short to get rolling so fast. Got some more mountain to climb, you know?

Anyways, hope things are going well for you, bud. Keep it up!
# 11/17/2023
Tomorrow, I move into my new apartment.
Little fanfare, scarce little.

I enter the life of which the only horn to blow is that of my own construction.
And I will be the only one to hear it.
# 10/22/2023
Errands
Are like work. They suck the energy, drain the time.

I wonder, though if all things are a kind of work. Even spending time with june takes a certain kind of effort.

In order to discern which kinds of work are worth performing, I think there are two major perspectives.

The first is to consider the long-term implications of such an act, and the ever-present wearing down of the spirit and association with death which accompanies it. Each act is life-expanding or not, and one needs merely to choose those which expand rather than contract.

The second is the alternate perspective, the way of the sage, to see clearly even in times of darkness, to enjoy even the most mundane. Doing by not doing. I am not so weak as to be conquered by these particular worldly things. My heart is still beating and true beneath the uncomfortable surface. I can still know myself as free, i can fly.

Both proper options. Either is preferable to inaction.

---
All that a man can choose
Is what he is obsessed by. 
Perhaps it is the difference between spending a life chasing women, power, or art. Of spending a life self-consciously, or of being glad of a life spent with no obsession at all.
The trouble is that man is a hard thing to change, and that only in a few quiet hours of a man's life is such an obsession easily changed.
The question we all must answer is what we truly want, and in order to answer that, we must cultivate strong wills, each and every one of us. Perhaps it will take years to do so, but it is the work that must be done. Perhaps it is the only work of such a kind.
# 10/21/2023
Being hindered
David lynch talks about how an artist cannot work if they are depressed or upset. He talks about how turmoil os like poison to the artist.

I extend his definition to encompass physical pain, a hindrance i know well.
The question being, what to do about this?
When you experience emotional distress, you can always poke through into that ocean of consciousness. It's instant. It just takes some perspective.
But physical pain... what is a man to do? How do you find the way out?

---
Do i want
To get married?

There's just so much negativity in the thing now. So many things have come up, have gotten in my way, have killed the joy in it.

I just wonder when in my life I'll stop doing things for other people - for my public perception. For social standing. For horeshit.

I can't build anything more than a little tiny source
Give me time
# 10/17/2023
Thoughts on shallow satisfaction
It's a pretty good compromise.
But I've got things to do! Got big things ahead!
# 10/16/2023
Wanted to update here.

Life is very good right now. Work is easy, have lots of energy when I get home,
and just working on a fun little platformer in the free time.

June is great, I'm moving into an apartment a month from today, etc.

I don't have any insecurities right now, really.

Woohoo!
# 10/12/2023
Here I am, watching the ground
While the sky is in view

# 10/11/2023
No Blame

Schedule
  6:45        | Wake up. Commute.
  7:30-3:30   | Work Time.
  4-6         | Free
  6           | Dinner. Clean. Shower.
  7-10        | Free
  10          | Get ready for bed, meditate, read.

That's a total of 5 free hours in the day.

Priorities
  Clarity

  Art
  Job
  Piano

  Exercise
  Experience good art. Games, movies, books, music, wisdom

# 10/10/2023
For the first time in a while, I'm actually tired.

I get 8 hours of sleep a night, I go to work, and I come home, every night,
tired.

I've tried to put some effort into working on things, but my brain is fried. I
do bad work. I frustrate myself.

So I suppose I should take some advice from Jon and just take it easy. Relax
into a neutral, happy state. Don't worry about results.

When I find the thing to put the effort into, the energy will return. That I am
certain of.

For now, I will plan on just enjoying some fun things.


# 10/9/2023
Methods for Deep Work
    Exist in a calm, relaxed state.
    Your mind will not seek pleasure, distraction.

    Clear out the old ideas.
    make way for the new.

    Don't make a schedule

    Avoid childproofing
    follow the pure idea to the deepest extent you can

    Don't chase success

    Avoid Distractions

Advice for Long Projects
    Only ever work on something you care an enormous amount about.

    Schedule near the end

    Avoid Burnout
    burnout is an injury. It takes a long time to get back to normal.
    It is a discordance between the rational and intuitive mind.
    Manage the human animal.

# 10/2/2023
Thoughts on work
This place is pretry cool.

I was a little worried with all the cubicles and such, but the people seem pretty nice, and they're all huge nintendo kids, meaning they're all friendly enough.

Then again, i haven't done any work yet. Haha

# 10/1/2023
The player obsession with victory

The point of a game is to win.
But what if... it wasn't?

When you watch a movie, there are a few different sorts of films.

Most are about winning. Watching a character overcome adversity, grow, and claim
victory.

Some movies take a different approach. 2001, Mulholland Drive, Hana-Bi.
These films do not fulfill the desire of the audience for "victory", in the
sense that we think of for games. They subvert the idea with some particular end
in mind.

Let's think about this.

## Goals
The goal of the audience, as we usually know them, is to come away from a movie
thinking: "What a great story!"
This goal can be approaching in myriad ways, with some films seeking the
aforementioned traditional "Victory" path, and others showing us something we
weren't expecting. Learning something new from a story which is not
conventional.

But we must keep this goal in mind.
When we create something for another person, we know the experience we are
designing for them is towards this end. We want to give them a good time.
No goal can come before this one. It is the end-all, be-all.

The question is: what is the appeal?

## Arch-plot/Anti-plot
In *Story*, we see that most films which fall outside the mainstream still
follow the same ideas as the more traditional films, but they do so in a more
roundabout way. 

# 9/29/2023
Once Sexual pleasure began taking the form of pleasing another, self stuff lost its interest.
Change the root of the habit and all it's vestiges will quickly die

---
configuration
is a pox, a sickness from which there is no respite but total annihilation.
an obsession which stifles the heart and mind.

---
Confusion of the heart
When you are not aligned with what you know in your heart to be good.
Not what anyone else tells you is good, but rather your own, most intimate beliefs of what is right.

---
create or consume
this is apparently the question we ask ourselves.
in the short time that i have been alive, there have been three major factors in deciding how to spend my time. Three core influences. 

the first is extrinsic influence. the advertisement. the opinions of others, culture, environment, peers. as well this includes the opinion i believe myself to hold, and opinion i believe myself to hold many years from now.

the second is the sheer impulse. habit.

finally, the third influence is that of the intrinsic self. What i am.

so there, we have our model. id, ego, superego. so what do we do with this?

for one thing, i have a lot of thinking to do. but thinking is writing, i think, so i ought to write more. thinking will lead nowhere if i cant keep the string going.

but as for my perspective at the outset, my opinion is that i hold far too much stake in the first, and it informs every aspect of my life. then the second, colored by the sorts of things the extrinsic world has planted in me, takes over, and i fail to have a meaningful conversation with myself about culture.

And there, deep within me, every now and again, the little voice reminds me of my true nature.

Why so small? And why so infrequent as well?

It's strange to feel this way, to see those i respect claim to hear that voice so clear and strong, claim that they have just always heard it, that doubt and habit and culture has not poisoned them even once. It's alienating.

There are two different conclusions to make. No, three.

For one thing, these great men could truly be more powerful than i. By birthright or upbringing.
For another possibility, they could all be lying. Their power gives them hubris, their hubris informs their deception. I find this possibility comforting and yet despise every part of it - its many hopeless conclusions.
Finally, there is a possibility which allows hope for me and also hope for the world.
That the class of great men is really the class of all men, there are just some who can see that fact more clearly than others. And their insinuation that they have not suffered the lowly defeats of man is merely an invitation, like friend's outstretched hand, that the world of dreams which they hold to be dear is really and truly simple, sufficient, crisp. And if you are to find yourself one day among this class of people, you must really and truly believe that the world is so, and that you are infinite, indivisible, pure.

There is no conquering the self, only seeing clearly what it is. Only listening to those ideas. Only being I.

# 9/24/2023
Upset
I give my soul to the world, to the others, in order to fill them up.
Do I really empty myself in the process?
Am I so fragile? Thin? Irascible?

Mia's dreams will always be of power no matter the subject.
It's what she has.
What is my dream about?
What does it matter to me?

---

i should go through and determine what the value change in each scene is, and remove the ones with no value change.

i should go through, find each of the parts i dont like, and research what else they could be.

core values:
destiny/free will (ojii)
poverty/wealth (haruhachi)
confidence (glory) /humility (takeda)
satisfaction/desire (arukahime)
risk/conservation (aki)

# 9/23/2023
Been feeling pretty down today.

I can finish the game, get it done with, on to the next thing...
But I just don't know, you know?
Why would I stop now? Can't I go through and keep working?
Is this idea really precious enough for me to keep going?
To carry it through? To fulfill its promise?
Is there a premise here at all?

Why am I making games? Why finish projects?
Who is it all for?

# 9/22/2023
Butthole
I have great difficulty with things
even just to live without discomfort, to be quiet, to be calm, is an unlikely
probability on most days.

but what should I do about this?
I know that it is real, it is my cross to bear.
But it is also entirely possible to defeat it also.
Not to completely neutralize such a feeling, but to overcome it.
To feel it every day of my life, in ever-increasing severity, and deny it its
power over me.
To make it subservient. To live among it.
I wanna give life my best work. I want to keep trying all the time. Forever.
But I need to be quiet to discover the reason for making these things, to be
open and available for the feelings to exist within me.

# 9/11/2023
Thoughts that resonate

"No scene that doesn't turn" -Robert Mckee

Do not evaluate until the work is done.

Action over reaction.

Everything that was ever done was done with tools far simpler than the ones you
have now.

"The only thing suffering cannot stand is to be seen clearly"
-Rupert Spira
# 9/4/2023
It seems I'm hitting that point again.

A place where I'm losing faith in the ideas. I realize how thin the veneer is.

How many times can this occur?
How many times must I delete all the applications?
It is the cycle of the Hebrews, build and bust.
I want to know the truth. I want to care less and more.
I want to cast off minimalism, but it is the only safeguard I have.
I want to be maximal. To have things which I care about. To fight!
I want to be pure, be clear, and be honest.
I want to find the truly good ideas. To see the truth.
To examine great work. To join the ranks of the thoughtful.
To leave the rest behind.
So everything is just me.
So everything can make sense.

# 8/25/2023
June and I
both move a bit too fast
a little presumptuous
expectations

but in our moments
we come out, we forgive each other
we are free at last
# 8/23/2023
Some notes on games I've played recently

## Pikmin 4
8/23/2023

The game's core feature is its blunt essence: Dandori.
To do multiple things in the time of one.
To spread work among many avenues. To pipeline.
It gets that across very well.

Its secondary feature is that of collecting.
Trying to fill meters and bars, amass wealth, and finish quests.
You're collecting, in this game:
* Pikmin
* People
* Oatchi skills
* Science upgrades
* Quest completions
* Treasures
* Gold medals on challenges
* Dungeon completions
* Level completions
It's absurd. I'm obsessed.
But it comes to a point where it all feels so hollow.
Why fill all of these things in?
Why do I need everything to be so neatly in place?

The only other notable aspect of the game is its problems with input.
Since it is a game about efficiency, it is frustrating how painful its gameplay
can be sometimes.
The feature where it won't let you throw pikmin when your joycons are moving is
dumb in the first place, and frustrating in its terrible implementation.
I just bring it up as a place where this game could improve, along with less
focus on the decadent collection mindset which the game seems to care so much
about.

## Tears of the Kingdom
8/23/2023

Once again, a game about collection.
This game has so much energy, so much interesting stuff going on...
But it's obsessed with collection. To the extent that you cannot really get at
its core without running into this part.

Its core, once you've parsed through the difficulties of the collection parts of
the game, are relatively shallow as well.
Combat is simple, scenarios have a lot of options, which is nice, but they are
rarely deeper than one or two levels of thought. Few insights in the system
here.

The story is pretty cool, but is so dragged out, it's painful. The characters
and their performances are childish and dumb. I say for the next one: don't even
bother.

But the game is immaculate in its sheer world-size, and in the density of
content that exists. I've played games this big before (read: Morrowind), but
even that game holds a whole lot of empty space. This game does it well.
## Dicey Dungeons
8/23/2023

This game is fucking awesome!

Its primary aspect is the moment-to-moment decisions of a super tight combat
system.

Small numbers, Cool abilities.
Great strategy layer, too, determining how to fit all your abilities into six
slots makes for a grand adventure every time.


## Opus Magnum
8/23/2023

I don't know how to feel about Zachtronics games.

On one hand, I think they're immaculately constructed. Their systems are always
tight and have insane ramifications.

On another hand, I don't have the stomach for these kinds of hardcore puzzle games.
I always get about halfway through, then end up spending a couple hours on one
puzzle and deciding it's not worth my time anymore.

Maybe this is a personal thing, but I am a little bummed out about this. I'd
like to really enjoy these great games.
## 868-Hack
8/23/2023

The first game I've played where every single decision is life-or-death.
Awesome.
# 8/22/2023
Priorities at the moment:

* Finish Umi
* Free creative time.
* Play good games.
* Watch good movies.
* Read game design theory books.
* Cover Linear Algebra fundamentals.
* Make a lot more music. Explore!

# 7/31/2023
Notes on The Courage to be Disliked

Human beings have the power of Radical Agency.
Any problem a person claims to have is subject to this.

Freudian Etiology : cause implies effect.
  e.g. my wife cheated on me, so I do not trust her.

Adlerian Teleology : effect implies cause.
  e.g. I don't want to trust my wife for some reason, so I invent the cause to
       justify my distrust.

The Life-Lie
  What we claim to want is often not true.

All problems are interpersonal relationship problems.
If a person were truly alone in the universe, they would be happy.
It is impossible to be truly alone.

We must attend to three kinds of interpersonal tasks:
1. Work
2. Friendship
3. Love

The Separation of Tasks is the process of allowing others to perform their tasks
while you perform yours.

# 7/25/2023
Aspects of Game Design

## Collection
This aspect of games is pure decadence.
It is fun, but only insofar as brushing your teeth every night is fun,
or neatly arranging the books on your shelf,
or shopping.

It is fun only in the anticipation of having something nice, and rarely in the
using of that thing.

Games about collection:
* Zelda TOTK/BOTW
* Pikmin 4

I wonder what a game about collection would look like where every single thing
you collect is a useful piece of a larger whole.
Perhaps it would be close to D&D magic items, where each item radically changes
the way the game is played.
Actually, this game exists. It is Return of the Obra Dinn.
You collect knowledge, which informs the rest of your experience. Awesome!
Hollow Knight comes close, as each charm and upgrade you get expands your
option, as with most metroid-vanias. 
It seems like a lot of modern games are just taking this too far, and losing the
point in the process. No one likes to pick up sticks for a living. But people
seems to love to do it if the sticks are named "Fire Fruit" and the number is
out of a grand total.
# 7/24/2023
Beliefs
Action over Reaction
Simple Tools
Minimize Distraction

My Strengths
Rational decision-making
Open-mindedness
Ferocity
Programming
Focused concentration
Energy towards a goal
Bringing people together

My Interests
Learning how things work
Creative fulfillment of exciting ideas
Discovering new, cleaner or easier ways of visualizing a problem or solving it.
Engaging with many aspects of a multidisciplinary production at once, as deeply as possible.


# 7/24/2023
Hello, again!
I'm back to logging in this format. No more of that OneNote junk.
I'll just not keep anything synced. This computer is my brain now.
The rest of the time, if I'm away for some reason... I will just manually
transcribe to this, if I think it is fitting.

# 7/20/2023
The greatest books

The war of art
The courage to be disliked
Being myself
Siddhartha
The waste land
The relationship handbook
The listening book
The gay science



Books to read

The art spirit
More calvino
More spira

# 6/24/2023
Distance isn't forever
it's a short time in the scheme
But to anyone who's lived a while,
it's sort of everything.
Four years apart, will do to you
What thirty years will bring.
Distance isn't forever,
but the feeling will forever ring.

I wanted you for a long time,
my body craving rest
my feet so cold and tired,
my hand clutched round my chest.
And in the steep and quiet night,
I waited for the day,
When time would finally bring you hear;
when in my arms you'd lay.

But now I do not know its warmth,
the warmth I'll come to bear.
The future so bright before me,
your love without compare.
So forgive my fear, my secretness,
It's just a scar that's warm,
A damaged place, a piece of me
Which upon the years were torn.

So it might take a month or two,
or longer still, we'll see;
for me to be among you,
for you to be with me.
But keep the faith, my moon and stars,
Keep watch among the night.
For in the lonely quiet place
Grows good and truth and right.


