Alex Hartford
Games

# Notes
# 4/28/2024
At the very least, Firewatch has some taste.

But I can't believe what I'm looking at... Fallout TV Show? Fucking anything on the steam dashboard?
What am I doing here?
# 4/28/2024
About homer, inventing the archetypes of the story. Following the crowd, watching how they react to things, and adapting his tales to fit their reactions, and his own soul.

Game which focuses on how different kinds of movement feel - like everyday shooter, where every level has a kind of movement and a song and look which is unoqie

I think media should focus more on how its good to just be curious and un-biased when listening.
# 4/27/2024
I am shocked once again at looking at the japanese games event on steam...
These games are crap! Are you kidding me? 
RPG is a worse word to me than any.
Anime is truly despicable, and it must be destroyed.

---

What about other kinds of games? How can the Return of the Obra Dinn be classified?
What about Morrowind?

What are these games really about?
It is still a mystery to me.

Maybe I don't want to find out.
# 4/27/2024
Games about feelings... Like Jenova says...
Not sure this is it.

There are really two totally different kinds of games we're talking about here.

1.
Games of feeling, focusing on augmenting the traditional storytelling medium.
Games like Firewatch, Beginner's Guide, Steins;Gate, and The Stanley Parable.
Games which are trying to add interactivity as a point of distinction to an already defined medium.

2.
Games of motion, which invent something new.
Games like Chess, Basketball, Mario, Spelunky, Braid.
Games which are trying to create meaning from a set of rules and interaction.

All games blur the line. In some way or another.
You can't walk around the world of The Witness without wondering at what the story of this place is.
You can't play Loom without trying to understand what the rules of the game are trying to meaningfully communicate.
Even if a game tries its best to avoid this, as in both of the above cases,
where Jon removed the story of the island, and Brian is trying to tell a story above all else,
you still get a hodgepodge mix of ideas, feelings, mechanics, metaphors.

You get everything, whether you like it or not.

So you can't really make one or the other. You can only make one and the other. Both.

But you can decide what matters to you.

---

The games which matter to me... They are both.
I love Chess and also Firewatch.
I love The End of Evangelion and Jonathan Richman and Friedrich Nietzsche and Derek Sivers and Joseph Haydn.

So why does games have an identity problem?
For what purpose do we question ourselves so much?

It is because peoples' preferences about these two types of games matter so much to them.
Because, often, they cannot coexist peacefully.
And also, because we don't understand truly what the second kind of game really means.

---

A game's mechanics providing meaning...
This is almost like a gimmick.
It's a cool idea, sure, but I don't think it really is what games are about. It's a red herring.

You can talk all you like about how Chess' mechanics teach us things about reality, and you'd be right.
But there are infinite paths to meaning from a work of art - from a creation of man, no matter the size or form.
Chess can be meaningful in its mechanics, in its pitting one man against another, in its declaration of victory and defeat.
Also, it can be meaningful in its elagance, in how it maps onto reality, and how it doesn't. Chess is restrained, and yet powerful.
And then, chess can mean something to you as a player. Perhaps in the past, perhaps right now.

Meaning is so manifold, so detailed and intricate a pattern - it's a pale shadow to say that meaning is in the mechanics.
It's like saying music's meaning is in the melody, or film's meaning is in the picture, or whatever the hell else.
It's a losing case. We'll never find it that way.

---

Games are about sensation, feeling, mechanic, memory, exploration, optimization, abnegation, death, freedom, and fate.
Games are about potential and growth, about resentment and passion. Games are about what it means to experience life.
And that's before you even think about adding anything specific about your game - a focus.
A game without any direction will already be about all of these things.

---

Chris Crawford's belief in Interactivity is right. It's the right way to look at this.
That is all we have over any other kind of expression, besides a goddamn conversation.
But we've got interactivity in spades. We've got it out the wazoo. We can't get enough of interactivity.

But he - and everyone else - is wrong about where that takes us. He says: Let's work from fiction and add some interactivity.
So says Campo Santo, or Davey Wreden, or Josh Sawyer.
I just don't see it.

I love these works. Don't get me wrong. It's just...
How different are they really?
Could they be films?

And if these are the pieces of art which I care about in games...
Could I be in film?
Would I be better off over there?

---

My belief in games, though, nudges me away from this sort of thing.
I think more and more often that it's Game Type #2 which will eventually compel my soul.

Spelunky, Hoplite, Braid, The Witness, Mario, Getting Over It, Dark Souls, Everyday Shooter...

Instead of these people making movies with controllers in them, we'll do the real deal.

---

Everyday Shooter deserves its own category actually. As an audio-visual-sensory experience. It's a game with a feeling. A game of distinction.
Perhaps one day this will be its own genre.
Perhaps I should be the one to help with its creation.
# 4/6/2024
An idea:

You play as a citizen of the Umayyad, Moorish people occupying the spanish cities of the Iberian peninsula.
Al-Andalus
You fight for your home, but it is not really your home. Contradiction.
# 3/26/2024
Idea for short where its an old lady who has dementia and is worried about strokes, who keeps burning her toast, thinking she has a stroke, then realizes it was just toast, puts a new piece in, then forgets about the whole thing.

Rpg where the numbers are ridiculously large, instead of minimal and small.
# 3/25/2024
I think the reason
That Journey doesn't work is that the only story that's worth telling is the conflict of the human soul. 

Limbo, Little Nightmares too. All of em lack this aspect.

Angel's Egg is still about this turmoil. The film is only evocative until the man and girl meet. Then the drama begins again.

Man vs world can only take you so far. The world is just not deep enough, not enough of a drama. Man vs self... endless supply of desperation, despair, and triumph.

Joni Mitchell's music is deep because she's so conflicted. She's oscillating between joy and fear, and she's so vulnerable that you feel every bump.

Whatever this idea might turn into, it will have to be a vulnerable expression of some conflict - some true journey a soul undergoes.
It can involve symbolism - all good art does, but it must have a heart of gold. Of pure, simple conflict and resolution.



The player might be able to make some decisions towards a conflict.
Imagine that the journey is the backdrop, but the player is conflicted about where to go.
They are told by characters that they should go toward the mountain, to reach the top. But they feel in their heart that the sea is where they belong.
Maybe things are too confusing in that situation, but the player needs some choice to be conflicted over.
# 3/25/2024
Trust game
One idea which is emotionally potent and personally meaningful to me is thay of trust.

I meet bryce, a total stranger, and we become friends. We put our trust in one another. It grows over time. We trust so much that i would stake my life on him, and vice bersa.

I talk to the guy at the restaurant, and i put my trust into his hospitality.

Even something mild like the hospitality rituals in game of thrones is sweet and meaningful, and when they are broken, no matter the purpose, it is sickening.

Trust can be broken, and it is maybe the one truly devastating thing that can happen in this universe, but when it happens, it is always potent, and everyone respects and reveres the victim and their experience. It is like the one true misfortune, because a person cannot be blamed for trusting another : it is the most essential feature of human life!

Trust also has connections with faith, as it can never be guaranteed. Trust is a prayer that someone is as they say they are. It is, in many ages and places, an unlikely prayer! And yet, it is in most cases necessary and in many cases desirable.

But beyond necessity and convenience, trust is one of the most divine forms of love you can invoke. when you put your trust in another, you express your love for them, for the bond you can share, and for the matters of this world.
# 3/2/2024
Huge design note:::

The game has to be about this!!!

An enemy approaches, with a stance in mind.
The stance shows you what you must do to defeat them.

Some foes you need to get higher than them.
Other foes you must go lower. 
Other foes you need to get like uh... prime numbers
Or even / odd?

Maybe

Actually not totally sold on this anymore. Will be v confusing.
Also relies super heavily on loadout customization, which i don't see being a huge part of this rn.


But then... what is in the game now?
# 3/2/2024
Ways we can take the dice mechanic:
Have the player roll a whole pile of dice, picking which to keep and which to toss
Like Yahtzee

Have the player accumulate condition dice from circumstances. Flame die inflicts burned, etc...
Then have the player be able to nullify some things too
This is complicated, but not impossible, and maybe worth it.

Health system is probably a bust. We probably just need a system like bacl where you need to tie or beat opponent and do that three to five times in a row to win
This will be best done as a first-to-3 or best-of-3 mechanic, where a player can try to overwhelm the opponent in the first round, or maybe take their losses and go on to the next round with what they still have.

Still open questions:
If the player's arsenal is the most important factor for success, then how do they manage it?
does the player choose their helper dice per battle? Per round?
Does the player pick which helper dice they are given in the game? How about which they want to keep out of a set of choices?
Would the game be better with a strategy layer, like in bacl, or would it be better off as a you-get-what-you-get match-based tactics game?
We could even do stupid upgrades like (do you want to upgrade your main die, or get a new helper die, or swap out an okd helper die, or...)
Also, do condition dice stick around? Maybe injuries accumulate too?
I really like the aberration idea, like ...
I've got it!

Fail forward is an important part of this.
If you lose a match, you are left with a permanent injury.
Maybe these injuries have negative consequences and can lead to death spiral, but also have a chance to be good for you. Like an old injury can give you experience and wisdom which you would not otherwise have.

The lens is cool still too, as in a yahtzee game it's important to see what a die will roll, so you could use this to check which dice are worth rerolling.
Or choosing which side you want. Lots to do with this.


Lots of experimentation to do. When we find the thing which is fun, we should hound that as much as we can. Don't waste time on possibilities which don't follow in the spirit of that first fun thing. We want to have as light of a touch as we can.

# 3/2/2024
Aberration
Only games i can think of with real aberrations:
everyday shooter level 4
Fez?
Tunic?
Star Fox?
Thumper

Films which are aberrations:
Mulholland Drive
Ikiru sort of. Anything with a big way in how it tells the tale.
End of Evangelion

Really, this could be anything which has some big shift in the way you play the game, which happens unexpectedly.
Something like college to the real world haha

Fire to water,
Earth to air
Dark to light.

Sphere to plane
Line to curve

Rhythm game 

Classical music which devolves into synthesizer

Lauryn Hill's trajectory
Michael Jackson

Corruption, Degeneration
Loss

My Parents, eventually.
All of us, eventually.

The ocean game actually fits this pretty well.
Like you're wearing a lens which you think is true, but is really corrupting what you're seeing.




We could do the stone game, and have a shift occur.
When you begin, you're young, and the game is about speed and aggression.
Then you're old, and it's about patience, endurance, and fortitude.
You could also add another layer - the lens through which you view the past is warped. Twisted.
Also, the lens which you envision the future through is warped.

It could be that the mechanic of sword fighting could involve a limited mechanic - a lens which you can see your oppinent's moves through. As you get older, the lens weakens, making you susceptible to failure.

I like this idea. We could extend the idea of lenses to dialogue scenarios, in which you can glimpse some part of each future, but only a limited number of times.

Dice mechanics for both fighting and for dialogue mechanics, like in betrayal at club low.

Combat - we represent striking low or high as being the way you want to roll. Say, the enemy is going to go for an overhead strike, which means - roll higher than the opponent!
Or the opponent is going for a thrust, which means: roll lower than the opponent!

Then, you could use the lens to try and judge what they will do next, but it is limited and works less good over time?

Pretty cool, but it might be confusing.

Definitely can imagine sick effects which occur when you are looking through the lens. Like you see duplicates of their guy, animating in every way he could at once, in different dim colors with fading pixels, then the real one appears and distinctly acts.

We could do fighting game - type key combinations, and have the players input them quickly based on the stance and move they want to take. Make it a pseudo-real-time experience, you know?

Fire could be a chaos element, like some things are completely unpredictable, and others are simple.

The lens can only see order. Characters have stats on the scale from order to chaos.

Your character could be chaos at the beginning, then shift towards order as the game goes by.
Or, you start neutral and decide which playstyle you want to go for. That would be sick! Also, too much work. No can do.

So essentially, it's a dueling game, where everyone is trying something different, and you can deduce some of it with a limited ability.
Is that idea really that fun?
It's kind of like shogun showdown but worse...

The games called brimstone
# 3/2/2024
Idea for stone game
A series of sword combats.
The player is introduced to the scenario, and does what they can to sruvive.
Every blow could be deadly, to the player and to their foe.
The scenarios tell a story of an exiled king, like elric of melnibone, returning to his homeland after many year away.
We can do some cool branching paths, like in star fox, maybe one where he slays a dragon, maybe another where he fights a hundred men...

In any case, the scenarios should not all involve a fight, and steel should only be drawn when absolutely necessary. This is crucial, and maybe what makes this game hard to follow through on. Because if a game mechanic exists, it is likely a focus, and in this case, we want this to be few and far between.

Maybe we can get the player to intuitively understand the danger of drawing a sword.
We want players to treat a fight like a real risk, so they need something to lose.

I had the idea that the player could have nine lives, or something likewise, so they learn things over the course of those lives, starting from the beginning each time, but of they lose all nine, the game is over forever.

That is a weird idea.

I think it pretty much has to be rogue-like if we want the permadeath aspect to exist.

Kind of funny chain of logic here:
I want to communicate the seriousness of drawing a sword and risking your life.
So i need players to take this seriously.
Therefore there needs to be dire consequences for death.
Permadeath is the best way to go for consequences.
But the game sucks if you can't try again when you die.
Therefore, roguelike.

There are some cool ideas otherwise, like having a form of consequence besides permadeath. Perhaps your resolve weakens every death, until you're just a husk. Or maybe it takes you too long, and by the time you arrive in your homeland, the apocalypse has occured.
In any case, there are creative solutions to this problem, but i think the basic idea beeds some work if it wants to see the light of day.

Once again, the core premise here is a fictional premise. The idea of a lone warrior, questing long leagues to return to a bitter reunion, slaying foes and seeking repentance along the way... that's cool.

But what does the gameplay look like, and why should i make this game? It sounds like i should be writing a book.
# 2/28/2024
Aberration

A departure from what is normal, usual, or expected.
# 2/24/2024
So the love of story games has gone out of me.

What is there that will remain?

It must be gameplay-focused. Dynamic, big, and novel.
Everything else is small, by nature.

Dialogues can only be as deep as their writer is willing to go.
Traditional platformers can only be as deep as their level designers can generate, and even still, that content is limited to a few seconds.
RPGs generate content, but it is all shallow and weak. Morrowind is pitiful in this respect, and is only large in the promise it has.
Point and Click adventure games are the weakest link in this regard.
Zelda games are twofold.
* Old Zeldas are limited in the usual respect.
* New Zeldas are partly indications of the limitation of this mindset, partially a celebration.
# 2/18/2024
According to Jon, most developers don't have the right idea about what makes their game fun.

This is true, I think, and it might explain a lot of why I can't come to my game's ideas.

I'm not accustomed to thinking carefully about what games are about.
I can think about their feel, or their vibe, and mostly what their stories entail,
but I don't think in terms of what the games are about, what their ludology implies, what I'm learning.

I went nearly ten years playing fire emblem games - enjoying them - before I thought once about what they were about.

That's worrisome, to say the least.

Imagine watching films for ten years, enjoying every scene, but never once really stopping to think about what's going on there.
It's absurd! That's no way to live a life.

So games deserve my undivided attention from here on out, when I do play them.
# 2/8/2024
Rain World
I'm sure it's a cool game, but...
It's like, who cares about the fuckin jumping on platforms and stuff? No one really gives a shit, unless it feels really good, man. 
# 2/4/2024
I couldn't make a game like Morrowind in 2D. Games like that require the ability to look over a vast landscape, and to get a feel for where you are spatially.
Spatial awareness in 2D... It's hard. It depends on landmarks, like in Zelda 1.

I don't know if I can make a game like Spelunky. 
But I sure can try!
# 2/1/2024
Fresh new ideas
A top-down racing game with 8-way controls?

Some kind of plant-growing game?

Just needs to be high-velocity.
I've learned everything i need to know to be making these games.
I'm one of the best programmers in the world.
I can crank out little 2d games like this in no time at all.
The only challenge is in the authentic examination of my own feelings, and of my beliefs with regard to design.

Do everything in your power to ensure that design is the focus.

True design.
# 2/1/2024
Other fresh new ideas
I like the idea of a simulation game right now for some reason. Like a game with pets or like animal crossing. Where you feed little guys and they just dick around. For some reason that's what's getting me going at this very moment.

But don't be ashamed! That's excitement! It's pure! Listen...

If it is aesthetic, should i listen to that?
Maybe. As long as the aesthetic is true. As long as it's not manipulating,
So that it's not confusing compulsion and experience.
I don't want to waste anyone's time, especially not without their consent
# 1/31/2024
What truly matters
Finishing things is a valuable skill
But what use is it if it is not personal to me? If it doesn't touch my heart, or the hearts of the people i care about?

I want to do things which speak to me! Not fake rangers, or whatever else there is out there which just serves to fill a need in my external life.

It has to be me, all the way down.

These are the things which matter to me:
Beauty, tenderness
Simplicity, Elegance
Honesty
Awe
Excitement, action, tension

The question being - are these all story constructs? Beauty is in the shape of a story, or a moment, not in rules. Awe is hard to inspire in games, but easy for film, or for music. It makes things difficult for me.

But if i make something, and it doesn't touch one of those things which matter to me, then did i really make anything at all?
did i add something to the conversation?
Did i ever live?

Do I really think that my voice is important?
If so, then prove it.

Don't work on things which don't have your soul in them. Those are prototypes. They're  done. Dead and gone.
Only do the things which come from within.
Don't do it for any reason besides your own.

Projects which are in some stage of development:
Umi
This game means things to me in its story, and in the process of creation.
Its gameplay was never certain, and it isn't personal or special.

Wizardnauts
This game was about bryce and i, and about policenauts, which gave me a cool feeling once. Not really anything special here though. The thing is dead.

Tactics game
I have small little feelings from time to time about tactics, about cool abilities and synergies between units. But this idea... it's not in me that deep.
It has some heart to it, some genuine foundations, but it's just... a wash. Nothing i have done has lived up to the ideas. The foundations of the premise are flawed. Truths reveal weaknesses in my own understanding, and in the purity of the idea.
This one hurts to give up, but I think it is almost time to say goodby.

Bird
This game, borne of restlessness, might be the only thing with a future here.
I won't say what it could be - i still don't know. But at least i chose something pure and simple, and its joy comes out a little bit.

Rootscaped
A game which is so easy to pick up and play - finally! Something true and good.
But the idea is so simple it almost doesn't have any depth to it. It has heart, but it's a pretty shallow premise, and it is hard to imagine pulling something meaningful out of the experience without crushing the seeds.


So there you have it. 5 games, dead and gone.  I think it's good to finish projects, but it's more important to do things which are important. The order of operations:
Do things which are important to me
Finish those things
Learn from them

So for now, things will be waiting. Stasis when it's not sure. Lots of time to be calm, quiet, and attentive to my thoughts.
# 1/31/2024
A more honest critique of these experiences, and what they have to offer:

*Downwell*
Martial Arts
Mastery

*Spelunky*
Martial Arts
Mastery
Slot Machines

*Everyday Shooter*
Martial Arts
Audiovisual experience

*Fire Emblem*
Scheduled rewards - level up every 2-3 combats.
Slot Machines
Story to pull you along.

*Dark Souls*
True spatial reasoning experiences
Unscheduled rewards
Martial Arts

*Morrowind*
Skinner Box Dungeons & Crates
The promise of long-term rewards (walk speed, powerful spells)
The genuine feeling of living a legend
Exist in a true world

*Pokemon Nuzlocke*
Slot Machines
Scheduled rewards
Moments of thought, punctuating leagues and leagues of mindlessness.
Martial Arts

*The Witness*
Contemplation

*Yrrkey's Revenge*
Contemplation


That's what we have so far in games.
From my experience, here are the positive things which games have expressed:
1. Martial Arts and mastery
2. Existing in a world with true spatial reasoning experiences.
3. Contemplation

In that order.
The games which are good - Chess chief among them - are mostly martial arts.
Rarely, games express spatial reasoning.
Once in a blue moon, they can express contemplation.


In contrast, here are some things which films have given me:
1. Longing
2. Awe
3. Joy
4. Loneliness
5. Esteem for the human experience
6. A meaning of life.

These are far more meaningful, accessible, and potent than the values games provide.
I cannot stress enough the pitiful nature of games as a medium as it stands.

What can I do to help?
# 1/30/2024
Organizing game development thoughts
Or any thoughts in general

There are some thoughts which are individual ideas, and which follow a clear through-line from beginning to end.
Other thoughts are super broad, where things spiral out into all sorts of mini ideas.

Umi rush hour edition is sweet, but it is not really clear what it is for.
Do I have any interestin tactics games any more?
is a tactics game that isn't an rpg compelling at all?
Is there any real game soul inumi?
We must try our best, but if we can't find it, then we have to give up.

Umi soul:
The game where you win and win and win and grt in over your head, until you lose and lose and finally lose for good.
It has to e a game which is hard at first, then deceptively easy, then hard again.
Here are the human emotions and experiences i wanted to explore with the design:
Sacrifice
Risk
Ambition

Most of this points to a risk-based game system. One in which you have something valuable, but there is some compelling reason to pu it on the line.
This is interesting for a few reasons.
For one, it corresponds very cleanly to important personal feelings. Risking relationships for some other part of life, taking things for granted.
For another, it can explore this concept as war. Sacrifice is the inherent reality of war, and very few games really portray this aspect of truth.
And finally, it's cool because the game has drama baked in.

The thing sbout risk... is that it must involve uncertainty.

Forms of uncertainty:
Random chance
Enemy decisions
Hard to do Deep analysis

In tbe kind of high-stakes game i imagine, it is hard to rely on the AI as a form of uncertainty. Even fire emblem avoids this, by making the enemy actions known and only relying on the likelihood to get hit as the uncertainty. Miss chances generally pad out that game, and it relies on player hit chances to be high (>90%) and enemy hit chances low (<50%). Then, it gives the player easy ways to manipulate those chances (cover tiles, changing who is up front, blocking corridors, getting ranged attacks on enemies, support bonuses, even item eauips... there's just a shit ton of things here. That's what the game is all about. And it's not hard to get any of these things on agiven character. 

The game is mostly about being decadent. However, sometimes there is some tension. If it exists, it is taken on the player's initiative. Only... genealogy has tension on the game's terms. Otherwise, the game has bosses which wait for you to attack them, it has jagens to handle any difficult situation you end up in, it has permadeath only if you don't reset, and it allows turtling on almost every map.

The game of fire emblem, removed from its context and polish, is a glorified slot machine and skinner box situation, with a risk / reward aspect tacked on to every fifth spin of the slots.

Can a game be made which is all risk reward and no slots? Maybe...
I think this has to do with the pokemon nuzlocke thing. How the grinding was bad, but gave the run some feeling of groundedness, how the skinner box tricks you into becoming committed to a situation which ill be decided in a couple of rolls of the dice.

A situation that, of course, is very easy to influence. One which theplayer feels is earned. 
The side effect of fire emblem putting the ball in the player's court is that they very rarely feel unfairly punished for taking a risk. They know the odds (though they are fake numbers), and they went for it knowing the chance they were taking. Same with nuzlockes. When you go into a gym battle, there is nothing but the mons you bring with you, and your plan. That is all on the player, and while rng comes into play sometimes, it is a minor amount, and playing around rng is the mark of a true nuzlocker.

I want a game with thst feeling. Where risk is authentic and a good player works to handle it well. But the questions remain:
Should the game be an rpg? How do you make risk and reward matter when the game does not have long-term elements?
Should the game rely on enemy AI to provide uncertainty? Or should it all be based around percentages and numbers?
What is the big picture question to ask of the player at any given moment?
Why do i always stick with tile-based?

Basic idea of the game: ship combat.
What that entails is open to interpretation.
Most of ship combat is maneuvering. Preparing a formation, and adjusting to fit the scenario. Fire emblem is like this too, but it mostly involves something else - slowly picking off stragglers until your advantage is unstoppable.
It is completely different from real combat. Nothing at all related. In real combat, both sides make a formation, lay their plans, and try to decieve the opponent. This is why fire emblem works, because the player treats the game as an optimization task rather than a true battle, and the ai's job is much simpler.

What about the chess-like game? The one where you onlu move one piece at a time... is that possible here?
It is maybe evenmore compelling in a game with bigger objectives, where youcsn try for 
# 1/30/2024
Ideas which compel me at this very moment:

Downwell game. Super tight, fast platformer.

Tactics game, the dream from years past. Drum n Bass.

Spelunky

Pokemon Nuzlockes

Fire Emblem

Morrowind

Dark Souls

Umi... Sort of...

I don't know what potential games really have in the earthbound / franken / yakuza direction. I mean it's crafty, but it's empty.

Whatever it is... No text boxes!

So what I'm thinking for now is... to do analysis of the games I like above.
## Likes
*Downwell*
    Super simple!
    Fast-paced.
    Easy to pick up and play. Three buttons!
    Feel is incredible.
    Energy
    Roguelike essence is pure and good.
    Progression system is super game-adjacent, and thus sweet and wonderful.

*Everyday Shooter*
    Super simple!
    Easy to pick up and play. Twin sticks!
    Handmade feeling.
    Music is front and center.

*Fire Emblem*
    Lots of care about the characters.
    Satisfying gameplay, whether it is compelling or not.
    The scenarios are serious. They ask a lot of the player. High stakes!

*Dark Souls*
    Incredible spatial reasoning moments
    Mystery in the world. Real excitement when you find secrets.
    Online helps bridge the gap between game and wiki.
    
*Morrowind*
    Extremely Grounded experience. Does not bend to the player.
    Open-ended mechanics. Lots of flexibility.

*Pokemon Nuzlocke*
    Roguelike elements in a linear game
    Boom-and-bust gameplay loops.
    Boss Battle focus.
    Simple combat system which allows for very tactical decisions with relatively little input from the designer.

*The Witness*
    Slow pace and Tone.
    Intensity. It is unrelenting.

## Dislikes
*Downwell*

*Everyday Shooter*

*Fire Emblem*
    The moment-to-moment gameplay of this is stupid. It's child's play.
    Permadeath is a half-success. It cannot perform the role it sets out to.

*Dark Souls*
    Game is super unfinished.
    Lots of bullshit difficulty sprinkled between the true challenge.
    
*Morrowind*
    Game boils down to collecting artifacts for fun.
    Not much depth in its manifold systems.

*Pokemon Nuzlocke*
    Grinding sucks, but when you take it out, the experience feels hollow.
    Maybe the most difficult question to answer here.
    The experience can be really divisive depending on the difficulty of the game you're playing.
        This is the one game where permadeath actually matters.

*The Witness*
    Game is obtuse to a fault.
    Can feel sometimes aimless. Asks a lot of the player.

## Synthesis:
The game I want to make looks like this:
    Super simple!
    Handmade feeling.
    The scenarios are serious. They ask a lot of the player. High stakes!
    Open-ended mechanics. Lots of flexibility.
    Simple combat system which allows for very tactical decisions with relatively little input from the designer.
    Roguelike elements in a linear game

# 1/27/2024
Stone, V0.2
The premise of the game is:
Focus the rules around what actually matters. Probably less crunchy fighting stuff

Important:
Training in a weapon should matter greatly. The Hound should always beat another man in single combat, unless...
The man is arthur dayne.
He is injured, or his equipment is broken.
He is indisposed otherwise.
When we talk two-to-one, or three-to-one, it gets very difficult!

Swords should break! It should be part of a character's choice to risk a blade, but there is two different ways to do it - either have it be a choice made in isolation, or a response to something, e.g. a blow which would strike, you can sunder your equipment...

It should be pretty simple though, don't want a player choosing between losing a shield or a helm, its a useless choice.

Sword

Slash | medium range. 4 slashing damage.
Lunge | long range. 8 piercing damage. exposed.

Block | negate all damage. Chance of breaking blade.
Parry | chance to negate all damage and expose enemy, but chance to take damage.

^ this system... it's alright. It's just that it's not the focus of the game at all. At best a distraction! I think it's a waste. But what system can we design? Is it all wounds, travel, food, exhaustion, and disease?
How can we do cinematic grounded story like in seven samurai, with choices embedded in gameplay?
Maybe we just don't. Maybe the best choices are outside the gameplay. So it's just improv.
But how to adjudicate contested things? How to decide between the player and the world? Or the hero and the villain?
We need some way for the hero to stack the deck in their favor. And we need it to feel earned and fair. You can't do dramatic irony in this system, or have the villains conspiring in such a way that the players didn't anticipate it. 

The trouble with narrativist side things is that they are always on the side of the character. You always see things from their perspective, and everything is built around them. Dnd has this problem too - every encounter carefully balanced around the players.

But the world is wide, and is a real thing beyond the players.
And chance is real, and can take a life of someone we hold dear.
It's like introducing chaos into a beautiful field and hoping that it makes it more beautiful instead of burning the whole thing down.
It's pure foolishness.
But... it's right! It's the right thing to do!
Incredible.
# 1/24/2024
Seven Samurai Rpg
Weapons:
Sword
Spear
Bow and Arrow
Musket

No armor. One shot kills all around.

Mounts are essential to the rules.
Difficult terrain, traps, etc.

Characters will have to have tight backstories. Simple too, but one can have a more complex tale to tell. Like Rikichi, or Kikuchiyo.

The picture works because one character has a backstory, which is revealed, and two characters have stories in the present day, which are explored over time. Otherwise, characters are just acting in accordance with their preset nature.
That is the key. Not too many changes at once.
# 1/23/2024
The reasons
Low fantasy grit rpg
Make the threat of combat as serious as it can be.
Make the process of killing someone hard, but easy at the same time.
Ask more honest characters to come about. More weary, careful folk. Those who seek to avoid combat, and carelessness.

The trouble is in the underlying idea of a campaign. Perhaps to offset the death count, you have characters from all around the scenario at once, and switch between them?
That's what George decided to do.

In any case, you need a single die roll to be the difference between life and death, and for almost all of the player's goals to be to avoid making die rolls.

You need every fight you win to really substantially change your character's skills. 
Training can help, but only so far. Training is weird in a ttrpg. I don't know where it belongs really. In any case, this is another reason to make the battles give lots of experience to the victor.

But a knife thrown at a head, while hard to aim, is deadly if it hits its mark. That's what i want to bring back. The fear of a crossbowman, and the terror at two.
I don't want players to believe they could survive a blow from a longbow. I don't want players to treat a longsword lightly, or even a dagger. I want a weapon to be a truly scary thing, and make the players seek alternative solutions whenever they come.

And when the chips are down, and they must fight... i want it to be truly important. For it to feel like a risk. Like life and death!

Other things:
I think that abilities being earned is truly a great thing, but it grows less meaningful over time. Should start characters with nothing, as per usual, just some ability score differences (+/- 2), and one minor trait. Everything else comes from the game. Must be sought out.
# 1/19/2024
Derek Yu
The framework derek yu puts forward about commercially viable games is good. It makes me reconsider a lot of my beliefs about games.

Fire emblem - a game i have long been a fan of, but have often criticised for its lack of  elegance, its stupid stories, and its experience points obsession.... this game is genius!
It has such a large possibility space, by allowing the player to choose their own units.
That is such an immensely wonderful experience, i can't even begin to express it.

The idea of choosing a character to focus on, and watching them grow... that is so nice to know.

Then further, the prospect of being able to make whatever combinations you so choose...
That is huge.

The fiddliness is okay. It doesn't kill the game by any means, and it works to the game's betterment by making things a little more complicated to think through.

Predictable enemies is essential. Let the enemies ranges show, and give them only one thing to do. Let their ranges be small and unambiguous. Make most of them pitifully weak. These things are what makes the fire emblem game tick.

The meat and potatoes, though, will always be the experience game. Getting weak characters involved to power them up, even though you have strong units to back them up... this is the crucial drama of the game.

Weaponry is unecessary but a nice twist. Maps are usually pretty good but they don't necessarily have to be all the time.
Some mechanics are outright useless, like fog.

And that's most of it. Those are most of the elements of fire emblem.
# 1/18/2024
Tact
The tactics roguelike
We'll do it like Derek!

    What do I like about roguelikes?
Surprise and wonder due to random content generation
Working with what you have.

    What don't I like about roguelikes?
I don't have anything immediately apparent here.

    What do I like about tactics games?
Rolling the dice for some reward. Let it ride!
Making strategic plays and thinking ahead.

    What don't I like about tactics games?
Overreliance on RPG mechanics.
Reliance on AI memorization.




    Here's a question: 
what will be the longest thing towards making this game?
As far as i can tell, it would be:
Making random levels which are good
Building out the combat system with different effects, and making an interface for them.
Making combat predictable, actionable, and fun!
Avoiding no win scenarios.

    Simplicity
Might not be the best course of action.
You need something which is sufficiently fiddly to work with. Something which can possess some weirdness, some jank.
for that reason, i'm going to have to make a real hard choice soon.


# 1/17/2024
It has to come from some constraint, some central conceit. Something simple enough and broad enough that I could hang ideas off of it.

And I have to sort of believe in the ideas. That's important in its own right.

So something simple, which I believe in.


# 1/17/2024
Important realization:

A huge amount of games happens to be the moment to moment experience of play.
There cannot be real big parts to a game until the moments are there.

Zelda is only compelling because it's sort of hard to kill the monsters and stay alive.
Because you have that going, the rest of the thing can open up before you.

Some games are all about that. Monkey Ball. Hat In Time. They don't have much more to offer you.


# 1/17/2024
Stone

A game about training tools and trying things.
Items have multiple uses. Try things!


# 1/17/2024
Ideas + Feelings

Spelunky type game
Fast-paced.
Lots of complexity wrapped in simple rules
No content - I never seem to be able to finish the content part of the game haha
Just do the system!

Is it all balancing? Can any kind of system work if it's balanced?
That doesn't seem right. It has to be fun at its core!
Fun to move, fun to control.
Any good prototype should come together in a week!
Canabalt, Spelunky, Yrkkey's Paradise...
Stuff always comes together right when the pieces are right.

Downwell
Hoplite
Spelunky
Pokemon Nuzlockes
Fire Emblem
Morrowind
Dark Souls
Hollow Knight
868 Hack

# 1/13/2024
Disbelief
The trouble w the rpg players I've got is that they don't have any will of their own. They do what is positive - jokes, one-liners, offensive things. They all act with courage, brazen courage, for the performance of all.
Characters are the furthest thing they could be. A pack of jesters, characterizing as deeply as they can, to keep the others sated.

I wonder what it would be like to have a single one of them try to show the way to the others. It would be a hard road, but the tone could be set.

In any case, i find myself less concerned these days with the resolution of technical scenarios and more with the problems of social stigma, fear, and premise. I ask myself what the meaning of this game is, and it is a hard question to answer.

It is always a hard question to answer
# 1/11/2024
Stone
Grounded
Deep
Honest

Dagger
Slicing a throat - uncontested instant kill. Impossible otherwise.
Thrust - in range, decent chance to harm. Out of it, nigh impossible.
Throw - requires lots of skill. Hard to defend against. Lower damage than a thrust, ineffective against armor.
Parry - chance to break the dagger. Chance to unsteady an opponent.

Axe
Always two handed
Slash - unsteadies you. High damage. Guaranteed damage, even against armor.
No chance for critical though.
All or nothing - no defense; deal massive damage if advantageous. Low dds to hit. Can hit through armor.
Block - axe certainly reaks, butcan prevent lethal damage.

Hammer
Similar, but very effective against armor and heavier to wield.

Sword
Low average damage, but insane critixal strikes through armor. All rounder weapon fordefense and offense.
Slash - a simple cut. Easily blocked, but can be chained together to tire an opponent.
Thrust - reaxh far opponent, beat shields, but puts yiu n a dangerous position. Can be disarmed.


Bow and arrow
Certainly can kill a man in the hands of a skilled archer. Can wound or mutilate them

---

Fantasy
A gane where a thrown rock can kill a man, if you pick your spot right.
Or a dagger! 1d4? Are you kidding? That's innacurate at best!
The trouble is that a dagger user has no chance against a swordsman.
And armor... it must be better too.
More dynamic. Let a helm, a crossguard, a gorget, all matter. Let a suit of armor be a proud thing, and what you can find be your lifeline. Let armor be better against certain things, and worse others. Let it be invaluable, but also useless if you're unlucky.

Cold! Food! Weather! Sleep! Disease! Gangrene! Fear!

The armor could also have complexity.


# 1/11/2024
Things i like from mork borg
Death rules
Random effects for the spells
Simple weapon system, with no real mechanical depth.
Super stupid simple ability scores and checks.
All characters are the same. No bonus to attack, etc... this is perfect for the game... not for mine, alas.
The progression system is short and sweet, but it definitely inspires apathy, not motivation.

# 1/9/2024
Ideas for an actually low magic fantasy game

Truth be told, i'm unsure as to whether this is a well-intentioned quest, and certainly unsure as to whether this is possible or not.

But it's worth a thought, as something i believe in! As something the world sorely needs.

Things i want the game to be about:
Decision making.
Coherence - in setting and in characters.
An understanding among the players of what is and is not possible in this world. A grounding.
A slow, awakening presence of what is indeed possible, as the world changes around them, or they enter new, strange places.

Mechanically, there are some things to take note of. This game is not about the things many low fantasy games are about. It is not about economy and encumberance. It is not about politics. It might not even be about health points. I think it's more like a collective fantasy game about making crucial choices... but i'm not sure.

Rpgs that have less to do with the games portion tend to be bad, no matter what the other pillars might hold up. If a player can't think througb the consequences of their swinging a sword in the field, the game can't hope to keep them through to a point where they can think through the consequences of a jest, a change, a remark, a sorrow.

And herein lies the difficulty. Games are to be played, and games are to be won.

Remember that.

Things that appeal to me anout the fantasy:
a real, concrete idea of martial skill, and an order of rank in terms of power.
Alien, divine magic. Strange things without, and characters who are truly shocked by rifts in their reality.
Strength in numbers. Fear of others. Of wilderness, of chaos.
Power matters. Characters want to do something more than anything, but they can't, unless...
Death is commmon. A character that lasts a while matters a lot, to the listener and to the world.

We're talking about a game where...
an unarmed party is possible, but very dangerous!
A storm means something! The cold and wet can ruin a character's hopes.
Knowledge of martial combat becomes paramount. Mounts, hosts, morale, momentum, and more. This should be a different game. Not in terms of hit points or damage dice, but intuition and knowledge. Like the kriegspiel.

# 1/4/2024
There are a great many games to make.
Games of chunky system.
Games of skill, games of heart.
Enotional, small games. Games of the most impermanent kind.
Games of the ages and days. Games to master, games to defeat.
Games of sword, games of plow.
The whole possibility space is before us, and we faint at the sight of it
The future is larger than one could ever know
Treat it with respect

Obey your many loves.
You have denied them so long!
Obey your passion for fantasy! Seek the truth of the matter. Find the joy in what you love.
Treasure it!

Zelda game with true secrets

Platformer

Tactics game
Rogue like

# 1/4/2024
Tactics
I don't think that tactics are what compels me about these games
I think it's something more base, something less pure.

It's more about the feelings. The feeling of having a big team. The interesting ways they interact. Making small choices which impact a story of fantasy and drama.
It's about the rpg. Doing some mundane task while numbers go up and you feel like you're making some good progress. It's like watching the road signs going by on a long drive.
It's about the fantasy. The knights and characters, sure, but the feeling of adventure.

So i ask myself, then, what am i doing making a tactics game?
I don't know. But i have set the task before myself, and I think i should finish it first.

Goal:
make sure mechanics are complete. That means:
Statuses
Passive bonuses
Simple visualization of these things
AI works good
Complex Constraints on abilities (e.g. use on an ally who has a status).

Create a dozen characters

Build system to gain them over time.

Create twenty semi random dungeon rooms

Build a spine for the player to play through.

Implement winning and losing.

Try to balance it.

That's the plan. 
I've got my work cut out for me haha

# 12/31/2023
Derek Yu's Spelunky is verrrry refreshing right now.

He talks about how he came to the idea of Spelunky. It was very simple.
He started with two things he loved - Platformers and Roguelikes.
These things - he did not love every aspect of each.
So he laid out the aspects of each which he liked and which aspects he disliked.

    I asked myself, what is it that I like about platformers? I'm more of an
    action-oriented game player and I like how easy they are to pick up and play. I
    like the tension behind each jump.

    What didn't I like about platformers? I didn't like the repetitiveness of
    playing the same levels over and over again, and the reliance on memorizing
    level layouts to succeed.

    What did I like about roguelikes? I liked the variety that the
    randomly-generated levels offer and how meaningful death is in them.

    What didn't I like about roguelikes? I didn't like the repetitiveness of
    certain tasks that were required to succeed, like polypiling, and the reliance
    on memorizing commands.

I think you can see how easily you would fall into the right idea if you go about it like this.

---

It's been two years or more working on little tactics games.
I actually don't know how many little ones I've made at this point.
There was the original Emblem, then two variations on that.
I made an Into The Breach style prototype, with the bird and turtle guys.
Then there was Umi, in Jai.
Followed by the new guy, I think I called it Mak.
I think that's where I'm going to start.
This one will be the last system. For a long while.
This one will be a game.

# 11/12/2023
Ideas
Courage, and allow units to be able to quit when they dont feel prepared.
Provisions? I dont know, i think its assumed a party will go in with enough provisions.
What this could be is a separate resource pool that can get attacked by dungeon events. Like a rat eats their food during a rest and so they have to leave early.
You could also bank on a speedy victory and send less provisions than your party needs in order to bring more cool artifacts and items.
Provisions will be a number, if it exists at all, and maybe you only use provisions when you fail a challenge.
Challenges can be anything, from skill checks to proceed, to combats, to potentially missable secrets, to big, climactic boss battles.

Secrets
we can do some truly hidden, random stuff. But mostly, we reaally want to inspire players to want to return to a dungeon to find different paths. 
Ideal scenario: the player brings a party, explores a dungeon, but along the way, they discover a hidden sanctum, with magical technology hitherto unknown. However, they dont have anyone to interpret such things. This makes you want to send another group in with a wizard who can pull this off. However, the wizard is very weak, so it becomes a more interesting and nuanced challenge.
It should be expected that you are not going to make it all the way through every time.
When you return, some progress remains, but some challenges respawn. 
Question: do we want dungeons youve been away from longer to respawn more? This would inspire players to more fully explore a single dungeon before moving on to the others, rather than spreading out. We want spread out, so my instinct is just a set respawn amount per dungeon.
You must divide and conquer. Dungeons can be explored once per day, but onky by one party at once. The rest will be unused unless you send a squad elsewhere.
Dungeons will have new updates every day, some kind of scouting report. Or perhaps there are just global bonuses, like all goblins give double XP. Basically we want a reason for the players to choose various dungeons every day.

Story
# 11/08/2023
A great majority of games are actually not doing things all that differently.
Mario has been the same thing for 35 years, but fulfilling a simple prokise over
and over. Other games, like zelda or pokemon, reinvent just enough to keep
delivering. Otherwise, innocation is not necessary.

It makes me wonder if i should be at the cutting edge of the games world, or if
j should instead focus on delving within, finding a more personal feeling, and
fulfilling that feeling to the best of my abilities?

I often say that i don't like games... this is mostly pride. A feeling of being
above the kinds of games which we all love. But in truth, i have had personal
experiences with some of these games. Jn fact, some of them still can give me
feeings which i cherish! It is not going to be snobbishness that finds me my
art. It has to be love. I already have it, i just beed to open my eyes a little
bit to how i really feel.

That's all.
# 10/22/2023
Is a game without control like a film without conflict?
Am I obsessing over the wrong thing? Am I being neurotic with no purpose?
What is games?
# 10/22/2023
What we seek to do here is to invent the game which has something to say.
It will not do to perform that which most games can do, to gratify the senses,
to please the child in each of us. It must be to teach, to perform the sacred
act of learning, and for the player to learn something they did not know they
could know before.
# 10/21/2023
The impulse in games
Is to control and manipulate a scenario.

It kills the heart of any of these games. It ruins them!
They can't even start to get where film can, where books can.
This is the source of the unhappiness of games. Of role playing games filled with numbers, which are the simplest system to manipulate. This is the source of story games which feel inhuman, uncanny, bizarre, childish.

For the impulse of the child is to control that which you cannot. Film humbles, games gratify.
# 10/15/2023
Platformer
What is the essence of this?
I cant beat mario at his own game
But maybe i can do soemthing interesting, something not on the beaten path.

A game about falling?

It's interesting to me... the kinds of games i want to make.
There is a compulsion to be smart, to make deep games, but mostly it is external, a pretense which comes from others, from how they might percieve me.
But today, and in extension this week, i've found a supply of energy to just create something fun, something enjoyable. Something with charm and spirit.
I think that it's likely that the impulse to make deep games comes from a deep dissatisfaction of soul, a feeling like you arent good enough. At least thats what it is for me right now.
I need to listen to my heart, and hear what it wants. If it wants to make serious games, then so be it. But if it strives for simpler experiences, then i will follow that impulse to its final conclusion as well.

I make my games for the sake of my soul. Let it and only it define the path forward.
# 10/11/2023
Games thought
    Children and adults approach media ina fundamentally different way.
    Especially with regards to video games.

    Childrens goal is to learn. In theat capacity, games fulfill the needs and desires of the child. They constantly provide new information, new insight, data.

    Adults goal is meaning. They come into an experience hoping that it will be worth their time. As a conneisueur. They want nothing less than perfection, or affection, on a personal level.

    So how do we reconcile these? Moreover, how do we make games for adults? I honestly can 't think of a game which delivers on the promise of giving meaning to a person's investment.

    In the games we have made thus far, there is merely a return to childhood, an innocent pleasure, a play, in games.
    There are not games for adults, there are merely gsmes which might bring an adult back to simpler times.
# 10/11/2023
Authentic games
    Downwell
    Hoplite
    Spelunky
    Pokemon Nuzlockes
    Fire Emblem
    Morrowind
    Dark Souls
    Hollow Knight

Stuff that infouenced me
    De blob
    My sims (1, kingdoms, agents)
    Pokemon (firered, ruby, platinum, hgss, black, black 2)
    Zelda (oot, wind waker, link between worlds, botw)
    Smash
    Wii sports
    Mario (1, world, 64, galaxy 1/2)
    Halo (reach, 4)
# 10/8/2023
Prototype super fast ; Get it in players' hands.
Don't think about the game feel at all. Ask my designer friends for feedback.

Games should have silent parts, like in Shin Godzilla, not noise all the time
like in Oppenheimer.

# 10/01/2023
## Influences
## Games
Zelda I, Fez
* Mystery

Zelda III / Link Between Worlds, Hollow Knight, Morrowind
* Vastness

Fire Emblem IV, Fire Emblem VIII
* Seriousness

Into The Breach, Spelunky, Dicey Dungeons
* Runs

Pokemon Nuzlocking, Magic: The Gathering, Dark Souls, Dungeons and Dragons
* Construction

Everyday Shooter, Wii Sports, De Blob
* Feel

Steins;Gate, Obra Dinn
* Non-game essence

Chess, Bananagrams, Splendor
* Tightness

Super Mario Galaxy
* Played it at an important time.

Braid, The Witness
* Merely inspiring in scope and the place from which they spring.

## Books
Nietzsche, Stephen Pressfield, etc.
Rupert Spira, Tao Te Ching, Siddhartha

The Fountainhead, Jonathan Blow

Invisible Cities

Stories of Your Life and others

Elric of Melnibone
* Epic, Mythical
Lord of The Rings
* Epic, down-to-(middle)earth

## Movies
Wolf Children, Clannad
* Tenderness
* Humanness
* The elevation of the simplest joy of all

The Wind Rises
* Transcendence of Dream

Sonatine, Hana-bi
* We're supposed to be like puppies!

Mulholland Drive
* The warmth of something unknown

Legend of the Galactic Heroes, Evangelion
* Epic scale
* Personal connection to human individuals

Five Centimeters Per Second
* Emotional core, my heart.
* Melodrama.

## Music
Soundtrack stuff. Zelda, Pokemon

Cowboy Bebop, Trigun OSTs

ICO

Cowboy Music. Ennio, Marty Robbins, Dean Martin, Shenandoah

Quiet, Serious. Bach, Mozart, Schubert.
Vigorous! Sibelius, Car Seat Headrest, Wagner, 

Simple, jive. Nat King Cole.

Soft Music. Masakatsu Takagi

## Other
BJJ
Swimming
Love
Drinking Water
Chronic Pain
Role Models
Frisbee
Spiritual feeling



# Ideas
# Orientation and Navigation
A game about orientation, where u are a stranger in a strange land and have to navigate travel systems, local transit, etc.
You get a lot better until you know the whole space.
Morrowind, toontown even

# Peco
A game where you feel like peco!!!

# Game About limited perception
A game about the kind of limited perception which sadie has, where you can only get a little bit of each sense, and have to piece things together.

# Game with a soul like a movie
The games up to this point have always been mechanical, have felt like they
didn't have the soul that you see in films and books. I'm imagining a game with
Take Me Home, Country Roads as the opening theme, and it fulfills the promise of
that theme through its whole runtime.

I'm not sure what that entails, but it shouldn't be impossible.
What does it look like for a game's mechanics to be charming, to fit a theme, to
be as seriously committed to itself as the writing, the art, the music?

# Monster tactics
A Monster-taming JRPG but with the Tactics format.

Nuzlocking, FE, Into the Breach, Dungeons and Dragons

You go out into the wild, gather the units you like, and then take them to the
field.
Sort of like in Valentia, where you choose which path to go down based on the
unit you get, and like in all FE, where you choose units for the job before the
map.

Rogue-like
Random Generation

Includes the cool options of the past.
* Block pushing
* Two-weapon fighter
* Leaping
* Warping
* Dancer

No chance in the design.
Stupid simple AI.
Elegant mechanics, small numbers.

Super specific, difficult capture feature?

It is a Game about collection 
A game where the collection you accrue is actually all useful, where you
understand the true purpose of minimalism, of possession, of objects.


# Twilight
A game set at twilight

There is an hour of day, a span of few minutes, in which a great many changes
happen. Not many notice it.

It is a changing from day into night. A quiet time.

# Two people in a room
Thus destined to perform violence.
To act out the premeditated scene. Clockwork.

There is only one way out of this room.

So long as one of the two people is unhappy, or afraid, insecure or uncertain,
the two will remain in the room.

But if they can manage that perfect peace of knowing the self, of being aware,
of dreaming awake,
then they will love eachother instead.

They will not leave the room,
but they will appreciate the joy that a room such as this one can bring.

# West Marches - Digital
10/27/2023

A Knowledge-based game about party management, and decision-making.

You organize 4-character parties from a pool of heroes who stay in your keep.
You send them to local ruins, bandit hideouts, goblin encampments, etc. 
They do all their own simulation while they're in the dungeon.
The goal of the game is for the party to be successful, and for them to return
safely with special artifacts, which helps you raid dungeons more effectively.

Minor things:
* Doesn't just have to be static 4 party members.
  * Party members could gain synergies, where they like certain party members.
  * They could also gain problems, where they don't like going with someone.
* Could send items as well, augmenting a party to fill niches they might not
  cover.
  * Instead of priest, give everyone healing potions.
  * Instead of wizard, send the tome of knowledge, and hope the fighters can
    interpret it to solve the puzzle.

# Real-Time Umi
2/1/2024
Pretty good idea here, and maybe it would fit into Umi, allowing me to finish that.

The game is a fast-paced ship sim game, where you move your ships around in real-time, coasting across the battlefield.
Arrows flying, men shouting curses, falling into the sea...
And you could even aim artillery.
It would be cool, and all rendered in pixels.
Maybe that would be good enough to justify doing the Umi thing again.

Anyways, needs some more time to bake.

# Fire Island
1/17/2024

    A game of pushing your luck.
    Run-based game
    Every run, you choose what you bring along.
    At first, you only have a few options.
    Every run you lose, it gets a little easier.
    Every run you win, it gets a little harder.
    You can choose to bring weaker stuff to push your luck and increase rewards?

More and more, I'm compelled by the spirit of pokemon nuzlockes.
If I could just get that spirit without any of the crummy parts of that experience...
But isn't that just a sequence of battles?

There's a disconnect between the things which I claim to dislike and the things I actually dislike.
I can claim that grinding is a waste of time, but at the same time, it is the thing which actually gives weight to the proceedings.
Why do you think I like Fire Emblem? Morrowind? Pokemon?
They're all time-wasters. Just chuck your coins in the machine and get what you're looking for!
Guarantees about success. Numbers getting bigger.
What else could there really be?

# The Ocean
2/9/2024

A game about a journey.

You start on the shore.
You are in a little village, of some kind.
There are some people around. Villagers.

They tell you about the sea, about how it's endless. How no one has ever crossed the sea.

The Cynic
* One tells you that it's stupid to even think about the sea. You ask them what they do care about, and they think you are stupid for even asking that.
* The Cynic hates. That is all.
* They don't openly deride you or anything, but if you ever talk to them, they are whiling away the hours in some field.
* They might be on a toilet, or something similar.
* Perhaps they can be playing a game, or watching a Tik Tok.

The Unbidden Artist
* One tells you that the sea is beautiful, and that you only need to look at it for long enough to understand.
* That you don't need to cross the ocean, but just to look at it, to appreciate it.
* They don't seem sure of themselves, or their determination, but they try to present it as best they can.
* In truth, a great, wise master once told them these secrets, but they are long dead.
  The Unbidden Artist tries to emulate the master because it's the best thing they can do.

The Old Man
* The Old Man claims that every man must cross the sea at one time or another.
* He says that back when he was young, every boy crossed the sea as a rite of passage.
* Now, he is all alone.
* The Old Man won't say if he crossed the sea or not.
* But he never did. He just watched it roll by.

Your Father
* Tried to cross the sea long ago.
* Was terribly injured.
* Openly forbids the sea to you. When you talk to him privately, though, he inspires you to try.
* He's convinced that it's not too hard.
* He wants to try the sea himself again, but he has too many responsibilities.
* He thinks that you can carry the torch.

Your Mother
* Tries to convince you not to cross the sea.
* Tries to tempt you to remain here. To convince you of the joy of life on this side.
* Is unhappy. She tries to convince you of the things she does not herself believe.

The Hero
* Has been preparing his whole life to cross the sea.
* He has rafts, boats, provisions, and charts and figures.
* He's memorized the patterns of the stars.
* He's built everything, he's spent his life waiting.
* He says he is waiting for the right day.
* He is paranoid, but subtly. He esteems courage, but underneath fears ever setting sail.
* For that would reveal his inner nature, and the possibilities he could have.

  * Options...
    * One day, he dies, from no discernable cause. Just a heart attack.
    * Or...
    * He grows old, never setting sail.

The Friend
* Wants to cross the ocean too.
* Can't go with you, for some reason.
* You hold them back too.
* You want to set out in different directions?
* Maybe there's a secret way in which you can go with them? One which is very tenuous?
  Because the crossing is hard enough without them.

The key to the game:
> You can actually set out on the sea at any time.
> It's harder if you don't prepare, but not by much.
> There are essentially two halves to the game - the waiting, and the sailing.
> Some players might grow too old by the time they want to set sail, and they can't do it.
> If you spend too long waiting, you can't go. You die of old age.


What is the second half of the game?
Is it actually just open-ended? The game ends when you start the journey?

---

I'm not ready to make the second half of the game yet.
So for now, we leave it open-ended.
Whatever way you go into the sea, whether pushed in by some character, or on a random day, or at the end of a long life, or with your best friend...
It just works out. The storm recedes, the journey opens before you as a beautiful future, and you start on your way.
It's like heaven, just leaving that place.

The village is the place of fear and justification. In truth, you can leave anytime you like.
It should really be miserable to be there.
The characters are all a little bit sad.
Maybe you can try and cheer them up, by being around, and helping out.
But they start to take advantage of you, or they make you feel bad, or they rope you into never really being able to leave.
Some kind of wage slavery.


# Stone
2/18/2024

What would this entail in video game form?

Could do mostly CRPG role-playing scenarios, following pentiment.
The thing is, that's really hard, even though it doesn't involve gameplay.
The things which usually compel me about this idea is the prospect of taking a battle seriously.
Of having drawing your sword be a weighty proposition.

Maybe this could be done...
Let's think about it.
# Reviews
# Manifold Garden
12/30/2023

Pretty good ga- HURGH!
Actually the most nauseous I've ever been playing non-VR game.

-/10

# Zelda Link Between Worlds
12/30/2023

Now that's a game.

9/10

Everything I could have ever wanted.
# Fire Emblem 8
12/30/2023

This game took me by surprise today.
It's got some real charm to it.

I think I'm realizing that I'm a real fantasy fan.
I love the trappings, and there's something hopelessly nostalgic about the whole thing.

I wonder what in particular it is, though.
Maybe this deserves some serious thought.

If this is what my heart is dedicated to now, then I must go to it.

7/10

# Okami
1/9/2024
Eh

# Void Stranger
1/9/2024
Boo... no more anime guys. Stop it already!
# Chants of Sennarr
1/9/2024
Game is fun. Not very deep but fun to play. Idea is good but the execution isn't exactly right...
Plus there's so many weird non-language puzzles, or things masquerading as puzzles... I don't know why you wouldn't just go all in on the language bit, but i guess it might get overwhelming without a respite here and there. 
The stealth mechanics are a total waste of time. I don't even know why these are here.
All in all, i think it's a good job. The look is good too. Though i wish they didn't have such stilted animations for the main guy. Give me something flowy and dynamic, like in journey or something.
# Umi
# 11/04/2023
What could possibly match up to this story?
It has to he about control. About risk-taking. And it has to be simple, like chess.
But we can't rely on the enemy as the source of uncertainty, it has to be something in the system itself.

Perhaps we can do the telegraphed attacks thing in some way?
Perhaps it's about micro battles which you  allocate resources to? This sounds too much like bookkeeping
Maybe an action game would be better suited? Turn-based just involves too much control.
you play as various foot soldiers, and act as every one of them in turn.

Turn-based still seems right, with it approximating chess.
The look of the game could be that old-school art block art style.

# 10/27/2023
A game about tragedy

Papers, Please does this.
You can get different endings depending on win/loss.
The key to this is the ambiguity. You always feel like you could be doing a
little better, so you always feel like victory is possible.

# 10/18/2023
The writing for umi
Should be a remastering of moorcock's Elric writing. It's so special to feel like something is myth. We should carry that through here. Plus, no one is really doing it.
# 10/2/2023
We make missions which are puzzles,
Meditations on a certain kind of idea.

Some battles are about risk. Others are about certainties.
Some battles are about victory. Others are sbout mercy, or escape, or economy, or glory, or fun.

Each chapter involves a number of these which make up the picture of a battle. Perhaps a battle contains the risky adventures of haruhachi, flying by the seat of his pants through the mission, as well as the methodical, positioning play of aki, whose careful guise is best represented by his scenarios.

Perhaps ojii could share wisdom with his missions, and each time you play his you learn something new about the gameplay systems.

We structure it like invisible cities

We could ven have each chapter involve different rules.

Chapter 1 - standard.
Chapter 2 - stealth
Chapter 3 - allies
Chapter 4 - storm
Chapter 5 - tides
Chapter 6 - retreat
Chapter 7 - 
Chapter 8 - pushing beyond a units limits

Can we really make small, individual battles that are about risk?
We don't really get the feel without having the player give something up, and permanently. If they can try these missions over and over, then they will never give that feel.
Perhaps each mission can only be tried once, and then on to the next!

# 9/30/2023
Game design notes
The process of design by exploration
Have an idea. Any suitable starting point. Find the richest place you can find.
Explore that space completely.
Trace a strong boundary around the space.
Present your results cleanly.
Look at what you have presented, ensure you have a light touch.

Principles
Richness
Completeness
Surprise
Light contrivance
Strength of boundary
Compatability
Orthogonality
Generosity

Tactics games are about managing risk, minimizing it.

We cant really make a game about risk without permanent consequences being involved. It just falls apart without that. Why take a dnd game slow when you dont lose your character when things go south?

Delete save file? This seems pretty intense.
Per unit permadeath? This is intense, too. Especially if our game is not easily exploitable and the ai is hard to predict.

Risk management in w nuzlocke is a great example.
The early game is all about conservation of mons.
The late game is instead about sacrificing useless mons to make it through.
This is very close to what we're talking about here.

Haruhachi's betrayal will be interesting in light of this.
In fact. Its stupid in the first place.
We should cut that. If there is betrayal in the story, it must be very poetic. Pure. Meaningful.

Minute to minute sustem of Pokémon is interesting. It's like rock paper scissors but on a bigger scale, with more numbers to think about.
R p s is a good baseline. From there we can deduce othe things, like efficacy, utility, etc.

Next question: what purpose does the grid serve? Why not just a Pokémon double battle format?
Where each battle has a set number (3-5) of battles that individually occur, with no map. You can choose units to fight in them by positioning in a sort of strategy layer map.

Grid ideas:
random tiles that are advantageous, which you want to rush for. These could change with the tides every turn, every three turns, etc.
The tides could give advantage in one direction on a few turns, then the other direction, etc.
Of course, the tides could also be like a shifting tailwaind effect from pokemon. In either case, we really want this. It's great and makes it start to approximate our theme and the vibe of actual naval combat, like in the battle of dan no ura


Actions in this system could be like Feint, or Charge, or Fire, and they would sort of be r p s

Aki's ship could be super consistent, while haruhachi's is more swingy.

Bigger numbers to handle more variability/risk.

