Alex Hartford
Journal

# 2024
# 5/24/2024
Thoughts on tech independence

Privacy is not important for me except in a few key scenarios:p

- id like my photos on my phone to stay private
- My notes should be private also

But privacy is not really being away from big companies, it's more like just being hidden from internet search or whatever

  

What ti would be useful for:

- notes from my phone are synced w journal from my computer (and are automatically dated and formatted and such)
- Files are synced between my laptop and desktop ? Maybe ? This seems like mostly silliness.
- Audio files ? What to do with these?
- Book pdf collection would be cool to sync and figure out a nice method of storage.

Ideal situation:

- obsidian vault for private thoughts
- Site for public thoughts
- Easy transition between them
# 5/25/2024
Yeah, I think this is working! Great. Writing this from my phone.
# 5/25/2024
Just set up an obsidian vault with this Journal, which means... I think... I can just write notes on my phone and they'll show up here. Let's see if it works!
# 4/28/2024
I don't think very well when I'm upset, bodily or otherwise.

Ico is beautiful, but extremely boring.
So is lain, and kino's journey, now that i think about it. So is angel's egg, unless you need something from it.
Art is food for your soul. You only need food when you're hungry. (Maybe it's more specific than that)

Derek sivers says inspiration also needs respiration. You will never be satisfied with input until you're also doing output. Breathe in... and out.
But often, it feels like i just don't really have much of any inputs. My inputs are often shallow, or cold, or painful. Not things i'd like to see, let alone make art about!
So the question being - what kinds of input am i missing? What sorts of feelings do i want to feel when i see things?
Louis Cole never waits at the inspiration train station. Maybe i should listen to him.

Here's a thought with regard to input / output. Both Steven Pressfield and Machiavelli have mentioned this.
Work all day, but in the evenings, retreat into the inputs. Study the classics, read the best stuff. Then use it tomorrow

Incapacity is the goal when i don't do what i say i want to. I try to neutralize my ability.
It's like when you're happy when you get sick cuz you don't have to go out, even though you had some nice plans. It just makes things simpler, easier to hide from.

People like James (and me too sometimes) likes to make prototypes that are so fucking big and obtuse that they will never be at risk of completion. If they ever are, then they will add complexity so that the objective stays out of reach.

How does the Professional relax? Where does he draw his inspiration? What does he avoid in this? How does he discern the good influence from the bad?

I am good at forgiving but terrible at forgetting!
# 4/28/2024
Got some thinking to do, but life is so good, I don't even feel like it is necessary!
So strange...
# 4/6/2024
Never discuss something as an outsider.
# 3/31/2024
Writing this from a place of genuine despair while yes, and? by Ariana Grande plays

Just saw my parents. We ate black cod, carrot cake, and we watched Free Guy by that guy ryan reynolds

I think they're turning into sludge. Both of them. My mom's a little slower on the go, but it's contagious, and my dad's got it bad.
He's got a brain for problems, and for solving things in ways he knows how to,
but he's so out of touch with the world that I don't even know how to start.
I feel so bad not talking to him about it, but it almost feels wrong to do so.
Like how someone talking to hayao miyazaki earnestly is wrong, like how old people don't change and it's alright.
I just wish that they were a little better, you know? Before they started to harden?
Like if they watched a little less television? Or had one fewer arguments? Or just didn't see advertisements all the time?
I just don't know what to make of this stuff, man.
I also feel bad since it's my future, you know? It's my destiny.

I just don't know what else there really is in this world for us to see.
If this is what it is... To work at a company, to poke around with funny little things.
It's a wasteland. Pure and simple.
# 3/25/2024
Chris crawford:
  A dreamer is a person with the combination of passion and execution. Some people can fantasize all day, and others just want to knock out problems. There are very few dreamers.

Song about hearing about shit after the fact:
How come i'm the last to know?
Every time i hear about it, it's been too long
The game is over, up
And the people keep their secrets...
I have never had a secret
I have never known
Life is good

All mental states have a physical foundation
# 3/25/2024
Cowboy Bebop
Has a world, not a setting.

You're just dropped in, and you don't get much exposition. You pick it up as you go.

By the time someone mentions the moon explosion, you've already seen its consequences.

By the time they explain how it happened, you already know who among your closest friends it changed inexorably.

This is the story's heart in Cowboy Bebop. A mystery show where things big and small are revealed first through observation, then through preposition. Where the past is almost like a memory, best forgotten by a character who lost everything in a moment.

This is also part of angel's egg, berserk, evangelion, mulholland drive, the wasteland.
# 3/14/2024
Cheerios in Oat Milk is a 100% Oat experience
# 3/3/2024
Thinking some more about things, and playing Everyday Shooter again... I remember now.
Things are not so bad.
Things are bad, that is true.
But if you focus on it, it will be all you see.

Tonight, as ever, I re-dedicate myself to the craft of video games.

Let me listen tonight to Jonathan's note at the beginning of Everyday Shooter.
No Games-as-art-theory wankery. Just go to the roots, follow the basics, listen to the heart. Make something true.

Thanks, Jonathan.
# 3/13/2024
The Dark Night of the Human Soul

Make a game which is dreary and hopeless, like Angel's Egg.
Which explores what really is on the other side of the Power Fantasy.
About a loss of faith.

It would be first-person, with a main character who is exhausting to control,
kind of like in Morrowind at the beginning.

My first idea for the main character would be that you're carrying a cross,
so you're burdened by that.  It could take up a bunch of your screen space on
the right half of the screen. That would be cool.  In order to move, we could
do something visceral, like having you have to time keystrokes well on opposite
sides of the keyboard, and maybe if you get the timing wrong, you fall down and
it takes you a long time to get back up.  Whatever it is, I want to make the
game exhausting to play, and kind of mesmerizing, like how Angel's Egg is
exhausting and mesmerizing.

* This simple mechanic could really pull the whole game together if done right.

The world could be a bleak and desolate landscape.
One-bit art could be really cool, especially with 3D models with cool texture details.
Imagine 3D art with 1-bit color, adjusting based on a real cel-shaded lighting model.
The ocean waves would be especially cool.

The goal of the game is to complete your journey (ostensibly).
But it's unclear what success really looks like.
There's maybe a mountain, in the distance, that you know you have to climb,
but otherwise there's just a bunch of characters to talk to.

The characters are all like Dark Souls characters, or like in Angel's Egg.
A bunch of wayward souls.
They tell you what they think,
and about the world you live in,
and their theories about what kind of place this is.
We can draw heavily from inspirations here.

In any case, maybe you can interact with them in minimal ways.
Like if a character is uncertain, and they ask you a question,
you can tell them what you think, and change the course of their existence.
Only big, huge questions though. Only meaningful decisions.
Like, you could invite a hopeless fellow to walk with you, or tell him to go towards the water to be purified.

The Ocean vs the Mountain is a cool dichotomy.  The idea of the alternative
ending to the game being you leaving the cross behind and walking on water into
a sunset is beautiful.

I think that it's maybe worth some thought as to what these things mean, but I want to leave them ambiguous.
I want to capture the feeling that Angel's Egg gave me.
That Lain gave me.
That Eva gave me, at the very end.

Like we're part of some great mystery that you must untangle.
Like there's nothing you can really do but think it through.

In terms of Jenova Chen's discussion of "Entertainment", where he describes entertainment as food for your soul,
I will be making a different kind of meal.
Most food is good for those who get home from work and want something to blow off some steam. To play Balatro or some rogue-like and get some numbers up.
This game will be for those who are seeking a different kind of spiritual food.
A game for the quietly hungry. For the desparate, for the hopeless.
For the quietly hopeless.
# 3/19/2024
Dark Souls is (maybe) the only game I've played with true reverence for violence.

Any other game, you get powers, you get equipment, and you go and use it.
You score some points, get some gold, level up, and move on.

In Dark Souls, you have a few little things, and you try them, and you get smacked.
You approach another way and get destroyed in similar ways.
You try all sorts of things, until something finally works: Respect.
Respect for the foes who you fight. You approach carefully, tending towards one at a time,
and gaining the upper hand in whatever way you can find.

In this way, it teaches you to be cautious. To fight only when necessary. To never let your guard down.

It's funny, since the fiction of the world is that death is cheap and happens often,
but the player's experience is that death is brutal, and that's what is operationally true.

---

Despair is another cool thing, which I think is unique to Dark Souls in its
severity, and with how it openly expresses this through its dialogue.

Despair is like a force of nature in this game, and once again, this mirrors a fact which is operationally true.

The reasons you have for playing a video game diminish as you lose over and over,
just as your reasons for keeping on living diminish as you lose things in life.

---

Man, I should talk to Bryce more often.
# 3/19/2024
The Pendulum of Fun and Art in games

This is weird. You can imagine most games as being torn between fun and art.

Films do not usually have this problem.
The enjoyment you might derive from a film might be manifold.
You might enjoy the bright colors, the satisfying story, a nice set of dialogue, some good acting...
And then there's also the meaning of the work.

Far from being the only meaningful aspect of the piece of work, the "Message" could be considered the "Art" part of a game.

In good films, these two sides are aligned. They are not significantly at odds, nor is one considered a drag.
In bad films, maybe it's a bit of a hassle to get through. But not usually.

The question being: What is the fundamental difference between games and movies which makes the latter so easy to align?

---

My first guess is that it has to do with the nature of "Playing" a game.

Games are learning, we know that. So when someone is playing a game, they are learning something as they do.
Films are learning too, but to a different degree and in a different way.

A film watcher learns things about the world, they see new perspectives, they hear new ideas.
A game player learns things about systems, they try ideas, they try to win.

But the kinds of insights which the film watcher has are in line with the activities which the watcher is already engaged in.
The kinds of insights the game player has are out of line with the activities which the player is engaged in.

I cannot fully express this idea here, but essentially, my theory is that the
process of game-playing is fundamentally at-odds with the kinds of meaningful
message which we might seek to express.

Dark Souls can express its message because it is in the rare category of games whose message matches its activity.
Violence is sacred in a world where enemies must be given respect, and anything can kill you.
Despair is the primary resource in the systems which the game has: Exploration and Combat.

One can imagine a game which tries desparately to prove one or both of these ideas in some other way:
    A game where violence is sacred and managing despair is important.

But I can hardly think of ways to express these ideas without running contrary
to the activities which any game system would entail, besides for the exact
solution which dark souls has found.

Platformer? Despair is there, but not violence.
Rogue-like? Violence, but not despair. Rogue-likes are meant for losing.
A lot of ways you could go about it, but all are in contradiction with the core ideas in some ways.


# 3/20/2024
Ah, the Game Developer's Conference.

Truly the worst incarnation of Video Games.

I wonder sometimes if it's foolish for me to be so cynical about such a mundane thing,
but it's hard not to be.

Instead, let's think of some things about Video Games which excite me!
Let's come up with some new plans and ideas, and make them a reality!

---

Refresh your memory, man... There's lots of good stuff here!
The games which are good:

* Katamari Damacy
* Downwell
* Zelda 1
* Shovel Knight
* Hollow Knight
* Pikmin 4
* Pizza Tower
* The Witness
* Everyday Shooter
* Betrayal At Club Low
* Fire Emblem 4
* 

I wonder sometimes if these Obtuse Games are really my favorites for good reasons,
or I just like their attitude. If maybe I just like how much they don't give a fuck,
and chart their own course, unwilling to compromise for the player.

Compromise is rampant in games, though it is also a killer in films (fanservice, marvel), and books (ya novels).
The thing is, that in books, there also exist these works which are truly uncompromising.
Things like Invisible Cities, or Moby Dick, or whatever. Works which refuse to be consumed lightly.
Works which act in their own way, nd enthusiastically push forward.
In Films, we have the same thing. Works which are of their own making. Films which are memorable, precious, and interesting.

These works, while being uncompromising, are still enjoyable.
Even if you don't really truly get what all's going on in Invisible Cities, or you sort of sleep through the whale chapters of moby dick,
or if you don't really feel all that connected to that guy in La Strada, you still get the nice descriptions of Venice,
the dense, dripping prose of Moby Dick, and the big emotional moments.

They're works with layers. With big, open questions. They explore mysteries.
They are uncompromising, but human. Infinitely relatable. Their nature is connection. Their meaning is art.

Obtuse Games are beautiful in that they show us the potential for something real in games.
For something which is not contrived, designed, generated, or invented.
It's something true and natural and pure. Something which hasn't been milked or tied down.

Eventually, I hope that will be the norm. Until then...

But on the other side, we also really need to get these Obtuse Games to go a step further.
To be accessible and deep all at the same time.
To be like Moby Dick, where the work is just chock-full of the stuff the whole way through.
Where you can come back to the work and get something new from it every time.
That's the dream.

# 3/14/2024
Influences for the Dark Night of the Soul:
* Angel's Egg
* The Wasteland
* Eraserhead
* The Dark Night of the Soul
# 3/10/2024
Aimlessness hits me like a ton of bricks.
Especially when I'm working so much at the office.

I just honestly don't know whether or not I should care about things.
Things which seem so obviously cool in prospect, but are so disappointing in practice.

Can you really succeed in an area which you have so much cynicism built towards?
And so little hope?

Is this how everyone is? Going forward even though they are unsure?

I have never been unsure like this before.
Maybe that's my problem.

This is worth a deep think.
# 3/9/2024
The games of Kenta Cho are fun, yes...
But they are not changing anything.
They are like the slickest execution of the arcade formula.
But none of his games have given me a feeling more complex than amusement, fun, anxiety, release.
And this seems to be what he thinks of his own games. They are toys. Temporary escapes.

But i don't like media like that. It's nice to see something which is executing well, but I need depth! That's all I ever care about.
I don't care that much about pop songs which hit all the right notes. I care about mystery!

Clearly, so does Jon. That's what matters to him - mystery. That possibility that there's more to something than meets the eye.
# 3/2/2024
Games, and art in the general sense, are getting out of hand for me.

I disdain the premises which I once believed in.
I have become, pre-emptively, like a cynic.

I know that there is wisdom in strongly held beliefs.
Especially beliefs which are so well established, and those which I truly believe in.
Even Miyazaki says his medium is doomed. And Jon Blow is on the same track.

But these things - they are incompatible.

I cannot believe these things while pursuing the start of a career in them.
It is like an old man, tired of the ways of the world, starting out in elementary school,
and hoping that he will find some bit of wisdom in it. He will not!

Only through authentic discovery can truth be found.

So don't worry so much about this or that - if I am to find anything worth working with - worth playing in...
I need it to come from a place of sweet joy. Of innocent bliss consciousness.
Just let the ideas come as they might. Don't worry about the deadlines.

Follow the tenets of those who have come before you. Of David Lynch, John Cleese, Steven Pressfield,...
And let em have it!
# 2/18/2024
Motivation

There are a lot of mysteries going on with the way that things work here.
By "here", I mean the brain. The body.
The reason why I and anyone else does any of this stuff.

Here are the tenets:
* Discipline
* Motivation
* Inspiration
* Passion
* Fear
* Comfort
* Identity
* Responsibility
* Awe

You see, the way I always saw these things, it looked like this:
    Inspiration comes at random, whenever it so chooses.
    You must be ready, once inspiration strikes, to use Discipline to bolster your Motivation, to follow its call.
    When you're in this mode, you will call it Passion.
    You will battle Fear, whose lieutenants are Comfort, Identity, and Responsibility.
    And if you succeed, you will finally experience Awe.

But this is baloney!
That's the way that I have always thought, but it is not true.
You see, there are flaws at most levels.

Inspiration does not come at random. You must set the table.
No passion arises without a true, earnest foundation.

    A Disciplined life builds true character.
    Passion arises from discipline.
    A child is born excited, but not passionate.
    He only becomes passionate when his means are established. When the game is revealed to him.
    When the man has something to work towards.

Passion comes from Discipline!

---

I lived a very disciplined life for nearly all of my teenage years.
From 12 or so, I cared pretty deeply about doing the things I did well.
From 15 I ran >40 miles every week.
From 18 I was working out.
From 21 I was programming nearly all the time, and doing Jiu Jitsu as well.

I had some scares in the last year and a half, which I have used as justification for a change in lifestyle.
The main factors in my change of mindset has been graduating, and getting a job.
After college, I was still scrappy, but I was slowing down.
Once the job started, I used every trick in the book to justify my behavior.
I was already dead, already a Zombie!

I still have things I care about, at the job.
But they pale in comparison to the things before. Both in scale and in personal connection.

---

So what sorts of things do I want to be disciplined about?
Just at the start, for now.
Small and simple plans.
Let's do two weeks, until the end of February. Then we can adjust and add things.
We'll do a little chart for this, I think.

Possibilities:
* Meditation
* Cold Showers
* Music
* No Technology
* Eating good, quality food.
* Reading
* Programming?
* Exercise
* Aerobic Exercise
* Consistent mental attitude
* Movie every night
* Play good games, one per day?

Let's cull that down to two things I really want to focus on for now.

List:
* Meditation
* No Technology

What does that look like?

Meditation
* Choose a meditation spot | The bedroom, sitting next to the bed.
* Pick a time | Every evening, after technology has bee put to bed.
  * This means we'll need some place to write down ideas after technology has been put away.
* Set a timer for ten minutes every night.
* Watch the thoughts. Let them go where they please, but never for long.

No Technology
* iPad is going away. Just forget about it.
* Don't check discord.
* Email can be checked, but like once a day.

That should be all for now.

---

The proper order of things seems to be a primary determinant of happiness.

For instance...
* Exercise early in the day. Definitely before eating.
* Cold showers, nose breathing early in the day.
* Warmth, mouth breathing, before bed.
* Caffeine early.
* Sugar never.
* Don't eat near bedtime.
* No technology near bedtime.
  * Actually good to have no technology ever, but we can't have everything.

Biggest habit I can imagine:
* Not wasting time on shallow experiences

Actually...
* Actively exploring consciousness while in the thick of it.

That's it. That's the good stuff.

# 2/17/2024
Yearning, to the ends of the earth
for some kind of death, for a melancholy which consumes my soul.

# 2/10/2024

# 2/6/2024
Slow down
Why let the world work you up?
These small things, these minor problems and meager flaws
The job i work is always minor. It's non-important.
So don't let it take you off-guard. Let it wash over you like rain, and don't shiver.
# 2/6/2024
Days are just slippin by
If art is a way to fight against the other side,
then where do you go when there's no fight left in you?
# 1/31/2024
Trusting my own feelings
Most of my enjoyment of games is so instinctual, so based on old experiences, things from childhood.
It's sad to say, but my adult sense of art is nonexistant. The old self knows what he wants, but the new self doesn't have opinions for his own.

How much should i believe in my childhood? How much of anime, rpgs, etc. should i carry with me?

All i can do is ask authentically every day what matters to me. To me, it's...

Beyond the fleeting gates by crying
Tatami galaxy by masaaki yuasa
And also ping pong
And also mind game
Wolf children
Spelunky, or at least derek's opinion on it.
Jon blow
June
Fire emblem, especially 4 and awakening?
Dark souls
Morrowind
Funniness, norm, and some other things like dunkey.
Dion
Soccer mommy
Car seat headrest
Bach, etc.
Graphics art with music. That skull program with the bach over it... wow!
I like rainbow colors across the whole screen shifting into eachother, like in 2001.
Zelda games, with weirdos. Otherwise i hate this genre.
Fire emblem, with real people, otherwise i hate this genre.
Pokemon, with none of the garbage.

What is a game? What is a game to me?
What is the point? What is the meaning of life?
# 1/31/2024
Art prios
Music - super high prio
Film - low prio. Not much visual experience these days.
Writing - low prio. It's fun, but it's rarely really hitting the things i dream about.
Games - mid prio. Leave it until there's a real searious idea, if you get my meaning.

To find ideas:
Play more of the games you love. Nuzlockes, Dark Souls, mario 3, and play some new good ones.
Accumulate sounds which are special to me. Try to codify my sound for an album.
I love the anbient sounds i'm hearing...
I wonder where comedy is at right now for me? Is it gone when bryce isn't here? Sad, if so.

Adjustment:
I want 10 big artistic projects, not 10 games. Big is relative, but it's pretty clear, i'd say, and if it's iffy we can adjust the plan later.
# 1/30/2024
Things are calming down... easing into a pattern...

Magical potential here, for the man who can claim it!
# 1/26/2024
Thrones
The characters are all balls of conceit or dumb as bricks. Is there a middle ground? Or is there really just lies?
I can't believe how fuckin dumb it can be sometimes. Here are the kinds of people in thrones:

Super Raper Man
Big Ball of Conceit
Dumb
Honorable Old Man From the Times Before

Characters move between these states to some degree or other. Daenerys moves from dumb, honorable to conceit. Jorah moves from honorable old man to conceit
It's pretty dumb
# 1/25/2024
Work
Is a lot like airplane
Stuck in a chaair which hurts your ass
And the lunch is okay, but since you're here, it's the best part of the whole thing.
# 1/24/2024
Game of Thrones
I think the books are very important for me to read. They have a groundedness, a sentiment which is unknown to most. They have a humanity, and the characters are usually pretty honest.

But it's a fool's story! It spends half the time showing you scumbags and the other half showing you fools!
And the other half is telling you about food, or some cloak or other, or whatever else there is.
It's such a waste, too, since so much is good and true. The past has reverance, the present seems truly dire, and the future seems bleak but for a few chance moments of light.

That's the trouble, though, that's the state of the whole damn story. The world is deep and rich, but the moment to moment is the day to day of vargo hoate and the motherfuckers and cersei

It's absurd! What else could be sillier?

Why not something true and good? Like the Seven Samurai? Where there is a reverance for all of it? Where the balance is towards good and life?

Perhaps it's dishonest. But i have less interest in the tales of grit than this. I don't even know if grit could be the descriptor. Folly!
# 1/21/2024
Why am I so serious?
On whose behalf am I speaking?

Is it true that the soul of the man is nothing but his influences?
That my mind is made up of the things I see? The vices of my peers? The virtues? Though little they are...

I only think so highly of fantasy because I see it so clearly in George's dream.
Perhaps only of games because of Jon and Derek's contributions and opinions.
And film because of Toshin, and of David and Takeshi and others.

My peers are glorious, they do good work. They seek truly.
But am I different from them?
Am I alone in this life? Distant from my good friends who would have been?

I don't want to be alone, trapped between a life of enjoyment and pursual.
I fear it. That is what keeps me from June's bed, from making games, from all.
But it is my nature. At least, it seems to me.
So I wonder at where that nature comes from. At what my essence is.

Ask me a few months ago, and I would have told you with determination in my heart that I had destinies awaiting me.
Ask me now, and I am unsure.
Ask me in a few months, and I fear I will not even know what to say, and will say nothing at all.

Do I resent my father? The way he continues on? The uncertain enjoyment of a life half-lived? The desire he has for warmth and comfort?
Do I wish he had kept the business running? That he had not faltered?

Or is it that I fear I will die without even doing that much? While mocking the father who lived half a life, I see that I may not live any life at all.

Drama grips me. It crushes my heart.
I don't know!
# 1/20/2024
I'm still 50/50 on whether games are worth any effort.

But most of my feelings these days boil down to sludge...
It's like I've forgotten how to feel my own thoughts and feelings.
Or maybe I never learned it in the first place.

Maybe things are too good these days, there's no struggle to undertake.

I wonder if a man can truly be judged by his actions in the moment of passion,
or if the more telling moment is that of the slow, mundane dying of the man?

I think those long years pose a much more substantial risk.

But I don't know that yet!
I don't know of any risks! I just live, calmly, and every once in a while, I see something nice.
Is that so bad?
It's some vain pride that keeps me unhappy.
It can only come from joy.
Maybe. I don't know that for sure.
But I know that it's what I've got.
# 1/15/2024
Lately, I've been having a hard time coming up with good ideas for art.

I think it's got a lot of factors, but the most prominent things I can think of are these:
* My life involves a lot of "gritting through the pain" these days, rather than being calm and open to new things.
* I haven't got many friends with ideas, so my old method of getting ideas is gone.
* My pride keeps me from the media I used to watch. No more anime, few games, etc.
  Not much seems to really be up my alley anymore.
* I'm afraid of art.

So I don't have a lot of ideas as to how to remedy these things.
There's going to be some time.
But I think about it more now, and I'm actually not that afraid.
There's nothing to be afraid of! Life is so nice these days.
Just enjoy it! You do not need a promise of a reward anymore, Alex.
Relax, and let your heart speak.

---
But I also think it would be a good idea to start to get some better art going down the pipeline too.
Just some nicer things to spend my time on than youtube videos and the Game of Thrones books.

My list of things to see:
[x] Ran
[x] Stray Dog
[x] Ikiru
[x] Sanjuro

[x] Getting Any?
[ ] Brother
[ ] Dolls

[ ] Genius Party
[ ] Galaxy Express 999 the film
[ ] Aim for the Ace! the film
[ ] The man who planted trees
[ ] Anne of Green Gables
# 1/13/2024

# 1/10/2024
Of the romantic things you can do
I wonder, which is the sweeter gift?
To reach out a hand, to stow your own thoughts for a moment and engaging as best you can in the world of the other?
Or to find the ground on which you both stand?
Does the man try his best to understand the ways of the woman?
Or would he be better off finding the place between them, the part of man in woman, of woman in man, of humanity?
# 1/7/2024
Money

As of right now, my goals with money are the following:
1. Survive.
2. Be able to purchase games and some nice things.
3. Save money for eventual escape plan.

I'm not going to change my plan on "essential" things right now.
Car insurance, food, rent, etc... these are going to remain about the same.
But I do want to start a little fund which keeps everything else going.
The dream fund.
I think that's going to be the stock market account for now, but we'll see.
In any case, the idea being that I want like ~30000 dollars by the end of this contract, as a jumping off point.
Once I have that, I'm free to consider other things about life and how I want to live.
I can make the decision then to go work at another company, to go indie, to travel, or do something else like grad school.
We shall see! But the freedom will be invaluable.


# 1/7/2024
Things get pretty turbulent here in my mind sometimes.

I think I push a lot of stuff together, trying to make sense of the whole world at once.
It's trouble for me, since I'm a pretty sharp critic. I'm so negativo that if everything is in one place, and I pass judgement, then the world seems pretty bleak.

Things are actually pretty awesome these days, though. Here's what's good to think about recently:
* I am making money to be able to go independent someday!
* I set up a system for doing everything in my home! I have a record player, television, speakers, a wifi modem and router, and my switch all hooked up to the same thing!
* My kitchen is super optimized for what I do in it.
* I have good things going on in life.

Now that I am here, it is trivial to look upon my life and ask if there's anything I want!
No problems, no strife.
Just joy, excitement, and fun possibilities!

I am going to maintain the constraint of making games as my priority, but I only want to follow threads which are exciting and joyful for me.
I want to get people to play these games, and see the joy it can bring them!

Woohoo!

# 1/4/2024
Fantasy
With all this revelation about the nature of fantasy, my enjoyment of games, etc. i think it would be wise to come to some understanding about where i stand on the matters.
And why fantasy appeals to me in the first place. I mean, seriously? Lves? That's what makes your brain tick?

Fantasy can be small, too. Die hard is a certain fantasy. Love Actually is especially fantasy. They are extreme forms of the world.
In truth, theme's nothing really special about fantasy to me. It is merely that the themes explored are the themes I appreciate the most.

Themes of honor and justice, but also themes of responsibility. Of growth. Change. Of healthy to an ideal and of perseverance.
Contrast to a Hitchcock film. Ideals of neuroticism, of longing, of strange fears and obsessions. It bores me! I care about these films only as far as their characters still are capable of growth, of justice, and of hope.

Isn't to say, though, that all fantasy virtues are good either. Most fantasy these days is about lust, power, greed, fairness, and obsession. I chalk a lot of this up to a certain childish obsession with setting and characterization, rather than in the true nature of the art and in the core of the experience. But because of this feelings prevalence, I cannot abide most of it.

So here is a list of my favorite aspects of fantasy:
tradition and history, and the interplay between respect and denigration.
Idealogical conflict, played out physically in the form of battle or war.
Culture clash, opinions, and synthesis. High vs low class, city vs rural folks, racial, ethnic, culture conflicts and resolution. Healing.
Chivalry, bushido honor, respect. Codes of all forms.
Post-apocalypse. Reverence for the things and deeds of a dead past.
Grunge, dirt, and cold. Hardy folks. Heroes, from humble beginnings.
Newfound responsibility. Rising to the occasion. Learning what you are capable of.

That's the short list. Of all the things I like, it would take many many days to enumerate.
# 1/4/2024
Sleepy
Sooo sleepy these days
I don't know why im rearranged
My pulse feels slow, my eyes are droopin
I need to get
A piece of chiken
To save myself from this mindless panic
I need a break, u know im tellin the troof

